SOURCE_PDF: 1.3_文献不足/补充文献_16篇/PDF全文/01_Wen_Wu_2021_Consumer_Trust_in_Food_and_the_Food_System_A_Critical_Review.pdf
EXTRACTION_STATUS: ok
PAGES: 15
NOTE: none
EXTRACTOR: poppler pdftotext -layout -enc UTF-8
---

===== PAGE 1 =====
Review

Consumer Trust in Food and the Food System:
A Critical Review
Wen Wu 1,*, Airong Zhang 2, Rieks Dekker van Klinken 2, Peggy Schrobback 3 and Jane Marie Muller 2

                                       1 Data61, The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO),
                                         Brisbane 4102, Australia
                                       2 Health and Biosecurity, The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO),

                                         Brisbane 4102, Australia; airong.zhang@csiro.au (A.Z.); rieks.vanklinken@csiro.au (R.D.v.K.);
                                         jane.muller@csiro.au (J.M.M.)
                                       3 Agriculture and Food, The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO),

                                         Brisbane 4067, Australia; peggy.schrobback@csiro.au
                                       * Correspondence: drwenwu.uq@gmail.com


                                       Abstract: Increased focus towards food safety and quality is reshaping food purchasing decisions
                                       around the world. Although some food attributes are visible, many of the attributes that consumers
                                       seek and are willing to pay a price premium for are not. Consequently, consumers rely on trusted
                                       cues and information to help them verify the food quality and credence attributes they seek. In this
                                       study, we synthesise the findings from previous research to generate a framework illustrating the
                                       key trust influencing factors that are beyond visual and brand-related cues. Our framework identi-
                                       fies that consumer trust in food and the food system is established through the assurances related
 Citation: Wu, W.; Zhang, A.;
                                       to individual food products and the actors of the food system. Specifically, product assurance builds
 van Klinken, R.D.; Schrobback,
                                       consumer trust through food packaging labels communicating food attribute claims, certifications,
 P.; Muller, J.M. Consumer Trust
 in Food and the Food System: A
                                       country or region of origin, and food traceability information. In addition, producers, processors,
 Critical Review. Foods 2021, 10,      and retailers provide consumers with food safety and quality assurances, while government agen-
 2490. https://doi.org/10.3390/        cies, third-party institutions, advocacy groups, and the mass media may modify how labelling in-
 foods10102490                         formation and food operators are perceived by consumers. We hope our framework will guide fu-
                                       ture research efforts to test these trust factors in various consumer and market settings.
 Academic Editor: Pascal Schlich
                                       Keywords: assurance; food actor; packaging label; traceability; supply chain operator; food
 Received: 14 September 2021           industry influencer
 Accepted: 14 October 2021
 Published: 18 October 2021


 Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays
                                       1. Introduction
 neutral with regard to jurisdic-
 tional claims in published maps            The globalisation of food supply chains and the increasing complexity of modern
 and institutional affiliations.       food systems are changing the relationship consumers have with food. Enhanced focus
                                       towards food safety and quality has reshaped the way contemporary consumers evaluate
                                       food and make purchase decisions. Specifically, several serious food safety incidents,
                                       cases of food fraud, and changes in food production practices have violated consumer
 Copyright: © 2021 by the au-          trust across the globe [1–5]. While not all of these incidents have directly imposed risks to
 thors. Licensee MDPI, Basel,          public health and safety, they do represent a breach of consumer trust and have reduced
 Switzerland. This article is an       consumer confidence in the integrity of the food system [1,2,6–9].
 open access article distributed            As food supply chains become increasingly globalised, there is a need to understand
 under the terms and conditions        the range of cues and information that consumers trust and rely on when navigating the
 of the Creative Commons Attrib-       complexities of the modern food system. Consumers with high levels of trust have confi-
 ution     (CC      BY)      license
                                       dence in the quality of the food items they are purchasing, and that the food operators
 (https://creativecommons.org/li-
                                       who produce, distribute, and sell food are meeting relevant standards [10]. Food quality
 censes/by/4.0/).
                                       refers to the tangible sensory characteristics of food, such as taste, flavour, freshness, juic-




Foods 2021, 10, 2490. https://doi.org/10.3390/foods10102490                                                        www.mdpi.com/journal/foods

===== PAGE 2 =====
Foods 2021, 10, 2490                                                                                         2 of 15




                       iness, and appearance [11]. Food quality can also incorporate less tangible credence attrib-
                       utes including nutritional value, functional quality, and convenience aspect of food, as
                       well as ethical and environmental considerations. In some instances, food quality repre-
                       sents prestige, and an individual’s social status and wealth [12,13] Food safety can also be
                       considered as an attribute of food quality, and it refers to the safe handling and storing of
                       food [14,15]. Safe foods are free from harmful biological, chemical, or physical agents.
                             Growth in income and awareness of the health, social, and environmental conse-
                       quences of food choices has increased global demand for diverse, safe, and premium foods
                       with specific attributes (e.g., organic, eco-friendly, nutritious) [16–20]. Consumers com-
                       monly use direct visual and physical cues related to individual food items (e.g., colour,
                       firmness, size, and price) when assessing food quality. For example, consumers from Asia
                       tend to assess meat quality based on the colour of the meat and its level of intramuscular
                       fat [21,22]. However, there are a growing number of credence attributes that consumers
                       consider in their purchasing decisions that cannot be directly inferred through search or
                       experience, such as safety, nutrition, environmental protection, and animal welfare. Tra-
                       ditionally, branding, marketing, and advertising have been used to communicate such
                       credence attributes of certain food items and influence consumer choice [23,24]. Over the
                       past decades, however, the growing complexity and globalised scale of the food system
                       have presented increased opportunities for fraud and food safety incidents to occur
                       [25,26]. Consequently, consumers must rely on additional cues and information to help
                       them assess the full suite of credence attributes they seek [16]. Thus, the scope of this re-
                       view is focused towards outlining the cues and information beyond product branding and
                       marketing that consumers trust for verifying the less visible food attributes.
                             Extensive research has examined various factors that influence consumer trust, in-
                       cluding trust in supply chain actors, assurance and regulatory systems, and the economic
                       development status of the producing country [14,16,17,27–30]. While these efforts have
                       advanced our understanding of consumer trust, much of the previous studies have fo-
                       cused on particular aspects of trust in food and the food system, with some findings being
                       country and culture specific [31,32]. As a result, the factors influencing consumer trust
                       identified in the literature are often fragmented, and at times, contradictory.
                             In this study, we critically review the literature to generate a framework showing the
                       diverse range of factors that influence consumer trust in food and the food system. We use
                       this framework and review to discuss the trust-influencing factors that are well-supported
                       by previous research, as well as areas that future research could further explore.

                       2. Materials and Methods
                             Given the vast amount of existing research examining consumer trust, we aim to crit-
                       ically synthesise the main themes discussed in the literature and construct a framework
                       outlining the key factors influencing consumer trust (Figure 1).




                       Figure 1. A flowchart illustrating the methodology steps.

===== PAGE 3 =====
Foods 2021, 10, 2490                                                                                            3 of 15




                             An exploratory search was conducted to incorporate literature examining trust indi-
                       cators used by consumers, food-related attributes that attract a price premium, consumer
                       trust in the food supply chain, consumer trust in product credentials and verification sys-
                       tems, and consumer use of food verification information. The selection criteria for studies
                       to be considered in our review include that the study is written in English, the study is
                       published in a peer-reviewed journal, and the study is published between 2000 and 2021.
                             For the literature search, we used search terms related to ‘consumer trust’, ‘purchas-
                       ing behaviour’, and ‘trusted food indicators’ to explore the key attributes that consumers
                       look for and rely on when purchasing food items to ensure that the food is safe and of
                       high quality. Search terms related to ‘willingness to pay’ for food with added attributes
                       were included as well. In addition, ‘trust in food certification’, ‘trust in food traceability
                       systems’, and ‘valued information used to verify food credentials’ were used to evaluate
                       what information consumers rely on when verifying food attributes. Lastly, terms related
                       to ‘trust in the food supply chain’ were used to support the analysis of consumer trust in
                       supply chain actors. The search terms were applied as keywords in the titles, abstracts,
                       and body of the journal articles in academic databases, including Emerald Insights, PLoS
                       ONE, MDPI, Wiley Online Library, Springer Link, ProQuest, Taylor and Francis Online,
                       Oxford Academic, and ScienceDirect.
                             Our search identified 133 relevant articles examining factors influencing consumer
                       trust in food and the food system. Of the reviewed journal articles, approximately 40 per-
                       cent evaluated trust in domestic foods, 40 percent examined both domestic and imported
                       foods, and 10 percent assessed imported foods only. Food categories investigated in these
                       studies included liquid milk, infant milk powder, eggs, cheese, meats, organic food, fruit,
                       vegetables, rice, cooking oil, Fairtrade products, and sustainable foods. Because this re-
                       view aims to summarise the range of factors shaping consumer trust, we took the con-
                       sumer perspective and only included articles that investigated cues and information that
                       are visible to the consumer.

                       3. Results and Discussion
                             We developed a framework that summarises the range of diverse trust-influencing
                       factors reported in the literature that help consumers verify the less visible food attributes
                       they seek (Figure 2). Our first step was to list all the factors, identified from our review,
                       that influence consumer trust in food and the food system. We then grouped the different
                       factors according to how they are perceived by the consumer and incorporated them into
                       the framework.




                       Figure 2. A framework summarising the range of factors that influence consumer trust in food and
                       the food system.

===== PAGE 4 =====
Foods 2021, 10, 2490                                                                                          4 of 15




                             Our review showed that the identified factors influence consumer trust in two dis-
                       tinct ways: either at the product level through labelling, or indirectly through actors of the
                       food system. Providing direct assurance on the safety and quality of food items through
                       food attribute claims, certifications, country and region of origin, and food traceability
                       information, builds consumer confidence and trust. Because these factors related to prod-
                       uct assurance are mainly made accessible to consumers through printed labels on food
                       packaging, they were summarised in the framework as factors related to food packaging
                       labels that consumers trust. Our description of food packaging labels also incorporates
                       product related information that appear on information boards in physical retail stores,
                       especially for nonpacked foods, or on a webpage of an online retail store. In addition, we
                       found two separate groups of food system actors who play a role in influencing consumer
                       trust. While consumers trust producers, processors, and retailers for supplying high qual-
                       ity foods, government agencies, third-party institutions, advocacy groups, and the mass
                       media are positioned to modify how labelling information and food operators are as-
                       sessed by consumers.
                             We present the key factors related to product assurance and food system actors that
                       influence consumer trust. Differences in findings are also discussed from the perspectives
                       of culture and economic development.

                       3.1. Product Assurance
                            Product assurance aims to enhance consumer confidence in food and demonstrate
                       that it is authentic and meets relevant industry standards for safety and quality. Because
                       food items are often accompanied with printed labels that describe various credence at-
                       tributes that consumers are seeking, food packaging labels are the primary tangible cues
                       that consumers have access to and use at the time of purchase to validate product attrib-
                       utes and assurance claims (Figure 2).

                       Food Packaging Labels
                             Product labelling is the written information on the packaging of a food product that
                       informs consumers about its unique attributes, quality certifications, country of origin,
                       and production region. It also enables access to food traceability information. Labelling
                       information, and links to traceability information, can also be presented on information
                       boards in physical retail stores, as well as appear on a webpage when consumers are shop-
                       ping online. Labels act as a direct communication channel from producers, retailers, reg-
                       ulators, and third-party certifiers to consumers [33]. They can also display branding and
                       marketing information, food safety and quality information, as well as information in-
                       cluding ingredients, instruction, and uses. Food packaging labels, therefore, are posi-
                       tioned at the interface between consumers, food, and the food system. From our analysis
                       of the various factors influencing consumer trust, we consider food packaging labels that
                       communicate food attribute claims, certifications, country and region of origin, and food
                       traceability information to be the most tangible information sources that consumers can
                       rely on for identifying and validating the different credence attributes they seek.
                             Food attribute claims. Food attribute claims mostly include quality related characteris-
                       tics that cannot be visually or physically examined by the consumer at the time of pur-
                       chase. These quality characteristics include, for example, taste, ingredients, and produc-
                       tion methods. Ethical and environmental considerations, as well as the nutritional value,
                       functional quality, and convenience aspects of food, among others, are also less tangible
                       and require labelling for consumers to distinguish. While food attribute labels can include
                       a variety of information and vary from product to product, research shows that consumers
                       tend to prefer simple and clearly presented food attributes on packaging, such as ‘free-
                       from’, ingredients, nutritional information, and expiry date [16,17,34–37]. For example,
                       Australian consumers tend to look for simple labels describing the specific cut of meat to
                       help assess its eating quality. Asian consumers, on the other hand, tend to value a variety

===== PAGE 5 =====
Foods 2021, 10, 2490                                                                                           5 of 15




                       of different labelling information, including country and region of origin, attributes asso-
                       ciated with improved health, and the personal quality of producers [37].
                             Certifications. Food labels can also display certification information that supports spe-
                       cific credence claims that are otherwise un-observable, such as organic, Halal, free-range,
                       animal welfare, environmental sustainability, or Fairtrade. Certification labels help con-
                       sumers validate authenticity and support their confidence in food. Studies of certification
                       labelling show that scientifically certified expert labels are the most trusted. A study of
                       10,000 consumers from Japan, the United States, Germany, China, and Thailand showed
                       that consumers trusted certified labels endorsed by scientific experts more than those sup-
                       ported by producers, the government, and consumers [38]. Trust in scientific experts in-
                       dicates the value of scientific testing for food quality and safety assurance.
                             Increased food scares and incidents across many developing countries have moti-
                       vated consumers from these regions to trust international certifications more than domes-
                       tic equivalents [14,35,39–43]. However, there is contradictory evidence suggesting that
                       some consumers can be discouraged from purchasing internationally certified food prod-
                       ucts [22,27,29,42,44,45]. These findings could relate to consumers in developing countries
                       being less familiar with international certification labels, or perceiving offshore certifica-
                       tion as more costly than domestic certification [22,27,29,42,44]. Another variation to the
                       general preference in developing countries for international certification is associated
                       with the certification of foods related to a specific cultural domain, such as Halal. For ex-
                       ample, Malaysian consumers tend to prefer and trust Halal certified food products from
                       Muslim countries, such as Saudi Arabia, Pakistan or Brunei, over certifications from non-
                       Muslim countries such as China, New Zealand, European countries, and Thailand [45].
                             Country and region of origin. Geographical labels are often used as an important dif-
                       ferentiating tool for assessing food safety, quality, and authenticity [46]. Specifically, con-
                       sumers use geographical labels as the main differentiation tool for high-value products,
                       such as wine [46]. Moreover, geographical labels are sometimes presented alongside other
                       attributes, such as eco labels, for consumers to develop brand associations [47]. The liter-
                       ature indicates that geographical labels are valued by all consumer segments regardless
                       of culture [21,37,48].
                             Country image. Globalisation of the food industry enables consumers to access a di-
                       verse range of foods from countries and regions around the world. Studies indicate that
                       consumers often rely on their general perception, or the country image, of the producing
                       country as an indication of food safety and quality [49,50]. The perceived ‘image’ or over-
                       all impression a consumer has about a country creates a ‘halo effect’ of positive or negative
                       feelings towards products that are produced from that country or place [14,51–53].
                             In general, positive feelings about an exporting country being warm and friendly
                       build trust [49,54,55]. Positive feelings derived from a perceived ‘clean and green’ image
                       of an exporting country also play a role in influencing consumer trust. The degree to
                       which a country is perceived to have a naturally beautiful and unspoiled environment has
                       been shown to increase consumers’ willingness to purchase imported foods from that
                       country [49,56]. For example, consumers in France perceived eco-labelled products less
                       favourably when associated with a country that tends to portray less of an eco-friendly
                       image than when the same products were associated with a country perceived as envi-
                       ronmentally friendly [57].
                             The economic development of a country, and its perceived competence, also act as
                       an important cue for food safety and quality [17,28,49]. In general, food safety incidents
                       across Asia have resulted in many consumers preferring imported foods from economi-
                       cally developed countries over domestic foods. For example, consumers in China rated
                       genetically modified orange juice coming from Australia and the United States as higher
                       quality than genetically modified juice from China, Brazil, and Israel [58]. Increased trust
                       towards economically developed countries for producing genetically engineered foods
                       seems to suggest an existing perception among consumers that these countries have better

===== PAGE 6 =====
Foods 2021, 10, 2490                                                                                          6 of 15




                       regulatory systems in place, and are more advanced in implementing agricultural tech-
                       nologies and biotechnologies [58].
                              In contrast, European consumers prefer food products from countries that are geo-
                       graphically closer in distance [29,59]. Even in Albania and Kosovo where food safety in-
                       cidents related to domestic production are prevalent, consumers still consider domestic
                       food to be safer and of higher quality than imported foods [34]. A study of consumer pref-
                       erence for the origin of seafood in Europe showed consumers to value domestic, local, and
                       European production over foreign imports [60]. In addition, consumers in Denmark con-
                       sider geographical origin as more important than whether or not the food is organic or
                       the size of the production company [61]. European consumers believe that locally pro-
                       duced foods are fresher, require less transport, and are better regulated than foreign foods
                       [62]. They also value the economic benefits associated with purchasing locally produced
                       foods [61]. Across other developed economies, similar domestic and local preference has
                       been found among consumers in the United States and in Australia [63,64].
                              Food traceability information. Food traceability systems capture information related to
                       the origin of food products and document their journey across the supply chain [3]. These
                       systems play an important role in supporting food safety and quality by providing in-
                       creased transparency across the food supply chain [65]. While food traceability has histor-
                       ically been used as a supply chain risk management tool by agribusinesses and retailers,
                       it is increasingly applied to enhance consumer confidence in food authenticity, safety, and
                       quality. Traceability data is made accessible to consumers through barcodes, Quick Re-
                       sponse (QR) codes, radio-frequency identification, and online links printed on food pack-
                       aging [3,66,67]. Supported by cloud computing, storage technologies, and more recently
                       decentralised blockchain networks, food traceability information made available to con-
                       sumers reduces information asymmetry and increases trust [3,68–70]. Food traceability
                       systems offer consumers reassurances on the origin and history of food products, raise the
                       standards of food safety and quality across the international markets, and help build con-
                       sumer confidence and trust in the traced food products [71–74].
                              Traceability information that verifies where the food product was produced, and
                       how it was processed and grown, reassures consumers about the food’s authenticity, and
                       provides substantial value in assisting the management of food incidents [8,75–83]. Across
                       the developing countries, increased food safety instances and fraud have intensified con-
                       sumer demand for detailed information about origin, manufacturing processes, and agri-
                       cultural inputs [72,84–89]. Studies show that consumers from China, Vietnam, Malaysia,
                       and Brazil value food traceability and are willing to pay a price premium for traced foods
                       [37,44,72,90–95].
                              However, in developed countries where there have been fewer food safety incidents,
                       studies show consumers engage less with food traceability information. Interviews with
                       the major Australian retailers revealed that time-poor consumers often have little interest
                       in the mechanics of the food supply chain [68]. Others have found that, while Australian
                       consumers put more emphasis on having imported food traced, their trust in the infor-
                       mation provided by the traceability system of imported food products was low [96]. Thus,
                       more work may be needed to establish strategies to increase consumer knowledge about
                       food traceability systems across the globe and their engagement with the tracked data
                       [96,97].
                              While traceability systems designed to improve consumer confidence through in-
                       creased transparency are promising, consumers trust in traceability systems and infor-
                       mation is less clear. Emerging evidence suggests that traceability information that is vali-
                       dated by an independent party helps to build consumer trust. Through a discrete choice
                       experiment with Fuji apple in China, Liu et al. (2020) found that the majority of Chinese
                       consumers regarded traceability validation as far more important than the traceability it-
                       self. In addition, they placed the highest value on government validation and were willing
                       to pay a price premium for apples validated by the government compared to those vali-
                       dated by domestic or international third-party certifiers.

===== PAGE 7 =====
Foods 2021, 10, 2490                                                                                         7 of 15




                       3.2. Food System Actors
                            While providing product assurance through food packaging labels directly supports
                       consumer confidence in food products, food system actors also play an important role in
                       influencing consumer confidence and trust in food and the food system. Food system ac-
                       tors are those who are directly involved in the production and distribution of food, in-
                       cluding farmers and producers, manufactures and processors, and retailers. On a day-to-
                       day basis, consumers have the greatest opportunity to develop face-to-face reciprocal re-
                       lationships with retailers. Their engagement with the upstream food operators, such as
                       producers and food companies, tends to be minimal. In the event of food incidents, how-
                       ever, upstream food actors often become more of a focus for consumers [88,98,99]. Food
                       system actors also include industry influencers who assure or monitor food safety and
                       quality, including government agencies and third-party institutions, consumer advocacy
                       groups, and the mass media. Although industry influencers are not directly responsible
                       for the production and distribution of food, they are positioned to influence how food is
                       governed and certified, and can directly communicate with the public about food safety
                       and quality. In the remaining of the Results and Discussions section, we outline the actors
                       along the supply chain, including food industry influencers, to whom consumers trust
                       and assign responsibility for ensuring food safety and quality.

                       Food Supply Chain Operators
                             Globalisation and the complexity of the food supply chain is increasing the physical
                       distance between consumers and industry operators who produce, process, manufacture,
                       distribute, and sell food [25,100]. Consequently, consumers often have limited knowledge
                       about where their food has been grown and produced, and how it has been processed and
                       distributed along the supply chain [98,101]. Research suggests that consumers tend to put
                       more trust in the operators from the downstream parts of the food supply chain, such as
                       retailers, than those from upstream [48].
                             Farmers and producers. Consumer trust in the supply chain operators who directly
                       grow and produce food differs around the world. Consumers from countries that experi-
                       ence limited food safety scares and rely on local produce tend to put more trust in famers
                       [98,102]. For example, Henderson et al. (2011) found that consumers in Australia display
                       high levels of trust towards farmers. Similarly, consumers across Europe, especially those
                       from France, Poland, and Italy, tend to base their purchasing decisions on the farmer who
                       produced the food [31,103]. Consumers from developing countries, on the other hand,
                       tend to trust farmers the least. For example, food scares and fraudulent practices across
                       many cities of China have reduced trust among urban consumers in local farmers and
                       producers [38,104]. However, consumers from rural China who are able to source food
                       directly from farmers tend to put more trust in local farmers who also produce for their
                       own consumption [27,32].
                             Manufactures and processors. In general, consumers’ connection with and trust to-
                       wards food manufactures and processors tends to be low [3,31]. During food safety inci-
                       dents, consumers tend to direct the responsibility for re-building and maintaining trust
                       towards these actors. An online survey of consumers in France, Germany, Poland, Spain,
                       and the United Kingdom showed that trust is established by consumers’ belief that supply
                       chain actors, especially manufactures, are competent, caring, and open [31]. Consumer
                       trust in domestic food manufactures tends to be low in China [42]. However, there are
                       indications that the introduction of new food safety laws, following food product scan-
                       dals, has improved some Chinese consumers’ confidence and trust in manufactures for
                       ensuring food safety and quality [105].
                             Retailers. As consumers become more disconnected from food supply chain opera-
                       tors, especially those from the upstream producers, processors, and manufactures, they
                       increasingly rely on retailers to ensure food safety and quality. Both traditional and online

===== PAGE 8 =====
Foods 2021, 10, 2490                                                                                          8 of 15




                       retailers build trust through developing ongoing consumer–retailer relationships, ensur-
                       ing all economic transactions are secure, and fostering positive consumer feedback [106–
                       109]. Traditional retailers with a physical presence, such as supermarkets, grocery stores,
                       butchers, and farmers’ markets, build trust through direct consumer–retailer relationships
                       and food networks [3]. Personal trust developed between the consumer and retailer acts
                       as a cue for food quality and safety [34]. For example, consumers from Albania indicated
                       that their main source of trust when evaluating food quality and safety is knowing the
                       butcher or seller [110]. Across China, where food fraud and safety incidents are common,
                       consumers reported the highest level of trust in large reputable international retailers sell-
                       ing imported foods from developed countries [27,32,104]. Despite a price premium on
                       imported foods from reputable stores, these retailers are perceived to offer greater assur-
                       ances on product authenticity and operate within the regulatory control of the govern-
                       ment [37,111]. Chinese consumers tend to perceive smaller independent retailers and
                       street vendors as more risky and likely to be involved in fraudulent practices [32].
                            Compared to traditional face-to-face retailers who physically operate in a commercial
                       location, consumer trust in online e-retailers can be more fragile and difficult to establish
                       [112]. E-retailers need to use more indirect approaches to build trust with their customers,
                       such as the look of their website and online reviews. A study of Chinese consumers found
                       organic food information presented on a media-rich website reduced perceived risk and
                       improved trust in the retailer [113]. Another study of 420 mobile shopping app users in
                       India showed that online trust can be highly influenced by the visual attractiveness of the
                       mobile shopping app [114]. Innovative website features have also been shown to build
                       trust towards online shopping sites and increase consumers’ repurchasing intentions
                       [109]. In particular, e-retailer sites with added human and social elements strengthened
                       trust through providing consumers with an indirect sense of personalness and warmth
                       [115–117]. Online reviews also enable consumers to indirectly access product quality and
                       safety information through the lived experiences of other consumers [113]. Long reviews
                       with more detailed information of a product are perceived as higher quality and more
                       useful than simpler reviews [118]. In addition, positive or factual reviews, and reviews
                       appearing on social networks, are often perceived as more trustworthy than negative or
                       emotional reviews, and reviews appearing on retailer sites [118].

                       Food Industry Influencers
                             Food industry influencers are in a position to confirm or challenge the legitimacy of
                       the food attribute claims made by food actors, and to shape consumers’ perception of the
                       risks related to food safety and quality. While government agencies and third-party insti-
                       tutions influence consumer trust through certification labelling that validates certain food
                       attribute claims, consumer advocacy groups and the mass media influence trust through
                       directly communicating with consumers about the trustworthiness of food operators.
                       There are some minor cultural differences in who consumers trust for communicating the
                       relevant information relating to food safety and quality.
                             Government agencies and third-party institutions. Government regulatory agencies and
                       third-party institutions can enhance consumer confidence through providing independ-
                       ent validation and certification of the credence attributes claimed by food producers, pro-
                       cessors, and manufactures. The validation provided by these influencers can be commu-
                       nicated to consumers through product labelling. As a consequence of increased food inci-
                       dents across many developing countries, consumers from these regions trust government
                       authorities and third-party institutions, over food supply chain operators, for ensuring
                       the safety and quality of domestically produced food products [111,119]. For example,
                       consumers in Taiwan display higher levels of trust and preference towards government-
                       supported food inspections over those conducted by operators [119]. Chinese consumers
                       hold high levels of trust towards independent institutions for providing quality and safety
                       guarantees of domestically produced foods [105]. They generally perceive government
                       and third-party institutions (e.g., research institutes and consumer associations) to be

===== PAGE 9 =====
Foods 2021, 10, 2490                                                                                        9 of 15




                       knowledgeable and accurate in their communication of food safety and quality infor-
                       mation, and care about the health and wellbeing of the public [111,119].
                             Advocacy groups and the mass media. As consumer demand for ethical food production
                       and consumption increases across the developed countries, advocacy groups who com-
                       municate directly with consumers about the trustworthiness of food operators for pro-
                       ducing ethical foods are playing an increasing role in influencing consumer trust [120].
                       The mass media, in particular traditional news channels and social media, has been an
                       important portal for advocacy groups to rapidly expose poor behind-the-scenes practices,
                       food fraud, and food safety incidents [32,111,119]. Media representation can powerfully
                       influence consumer perceptions of food-related issues, especially those with which the
                       general public have limited direct experience [120]. For example, animal welfare activists
                       exposed industry wrong doings within the live export industry through broadcasting
                       video footage of animal mistreatment in the slaughterhouse of the importing countries,
                       and poor welfare conditions within intensive piggeries and broiler sheds [120]. The wide-
                       spread broadcast of these videos across the mass media led to the suspension of Austral-
                       ian cattle exports to countries exposed for mistreating animals and the closure of Austral-
                       ian operations with poor animal welfare. The work of advocacy groups has given rise to
                       dramatic changes in consumer attitudes towards animal production and welfare [121].
                       Bray and Ankeny (2017) found that Australian consumers perceive free-range and cage-
                       free eggs as better quality, more nutritious, safer, and tastier than caged eggs. These
                       changes have accelerated consumer demand for ethical foods and have pushed many re-
                       tailers across the developed countries to establish new animal welfare standards for pro-
                       ducers [120].

                       4. Conclusions
                             Income growth, increased awareness of health benefits of foods, and ongoing food
                       safety incidents are accelerating consumer demand for safe and quality foods that cannot
                       easily be distinguished based on visual and physical cues. Although branding and mar-
                       keting strategies are widely used to communicate the credence attributes of food products,
                       the complex, fragmented, and globalised modern food system presents growing opportu-
                       nities for food incidents, fraud, and poor practices to occur. Consequently, agribusinesses
                       and supply chain stakeholders have taken various approaches to address consumer con-
                       cerns and secure their confidence in food safety and quality.
                             The present review developed a food trust framework and revealed that consumer
                       trust can be built through product assurance and food system actors. Our findings show
                       that product assurance through food packaging labels that communicate food attributes,
                       certifications, country or region of origin, and food traceability are one important set of
                       tangible cues and sources of information that consumers trust when assessing food safety
                       and quality at the time of purchase. In addition, food system actors, particularly retailers
                       and food industry influencers, who detect or directly communicate with the public about
                       food safety and quality, also play a crucial role in influencing consumer trust.
                             While there are similarities in the cues and information consumers trust and rely on
                       for ensuring food safety and quality across the globe, the specific ways in which these
                       factors operate can vary between countries and cultures. For example, geographical labels
                       indicating the country and region from which the food was produced tend to be valued
                       by all consumers. However, consumers from Europe tend to primarily rely on geograph-
                       ical origin for evaluating food safety and quality, while consumers in Asia tend to rely on
                       more detailed labelling information that includes origin, but also health related attributes
                       and personal qualities of producers.
                             Ongoing food safety incidents seem to have motivated consumers across developing
                       countries to prefer imported foods and quality certifications from economically developed
                       countries over domestic equivalents. Despite a price premium on foods, consumers from
                       developing countries appear to trust reputable international retailers and manufactures
                       over local producers. They tend to trust government authorities and third-party institutes

===== PAGE 10 =====
Foods 2021, 10, 2490                                                                                                   10 of 15




                       for regulating and validating food safety and quality over advocacy groups and the mass
                       media. In many of the developed countries, however, there is a general preference for
                       domestic food products over foreign imports, even in countries where food safety inci-
                       dents related to domestic production are prevalent. Consumers from developed countries
                       with fewer experiences of food incidents tend to put more trust in local farmers and re-
                       tailers who sell local produce than food manufactures. Compared to consumers from de-
                       veloping countries, the purchasing decisions of those from developed countries tend to
                       be influenced more by the advocacy movements championing animal warfare and ethical
                       consumption.
                             Our findings also suggest that consumers may have greater confidence in product
                       assurance systems that are supported by the food system actors they trust. While food
                       packaging labels help consumers validate credence attributes, food system actors provide
                       consumers with an added layer of safety and quality assurance. To contrast consumers
                       from developed countries, those from developing countries tend to trust government au-
                       thorities and third-party institutions (e.g., research institutes and consumer associations)
                       over food supply chain operators for validating food traceability information and ensur-
                       ing the safety and quality of domestic food products. While digital and traceability sys-
                       tems present opportunities for food system actors to provide consumers with added trans-
                       parency and assurance across the food supply chain, research investigating consumer
                       trust in traceability information appears limited at present. Future research needs to es-
                       tablish a better understanding of what traceability information consumers value and the
                       validation that they trust. It should also be noted that there appears to be a disconnect
                       between what consumers state they trust under experimental settings and their actual
                       purchase behaviour at the time of purchase [23]. Improved methods need to be developed
                       that better capture actual consumer behaviour under experimental settings.
                             Overall, our framework offers the first step in understanding the key drivers of con-
                       sumer trust and how those may be influenced by culture. While our framework highlights
                       the individual importance of food packaging labels, supply chain actors, and industry in-
                       fluencers when evaluating consumer trust, more work is required to establish their rela-
                       tive importance. Knowing the relative importance of these main factors influencing con-
                       sumer trust has implications for the design and further development of credentialing and
                       traceability systems. We hope our framework will guide future research and food indus-
                       try efforts to test these trust factors in various consumer and market settings, and develop
                       systems and strategies for building and maintaining consumer trust.

                       Author Contributions: W.W.: Conceptualization, Formal analysis, Investigation, Writing—Original
                       draft, Visualization, Project administration; A.Z.: Conceptualization, Validation, Writing—Review
                       & Editing; R.D.v.K.: Conceptualization, Validation, Writing—Review & Editing; P.S.: Conceptual-
                       ization, Validation, Writing—Review & Editing, J.M.M.: Conceptualization, Validation, Writing—
                       Review & Editing. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
                       Funding: This research was supprted by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Or-
                       ganisation as part of the Trusted Agrifood Exports Mission.
                       Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
                       Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
                       Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
                       Acknowledgments: A special thanks to Ryan McAllister for contributing his valuable time and ex-
                       pertise in supporting the thinking behind this paper and proofreading the article.
                       Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The funders had no role in the
                       design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manu-
                       script, or in the decision to publish the results.

===== PAGE 11 =====
Foods 2021, 10, 2490                                                                                                              11 of 15




References
1.    Henderson, J.; Ward, P.R.; Coveney, J.; Meyer, S.B. What are the important issues around food safety and nutrition? Findings
      from a media analysis and qualitative study of consumer trust. Australas. Med. J. 2010, 3, 164–169.
2.    Esteki, M.; Regueiro, J.; Simal-Gándara, J. Tackling fraudsters with global strategies to expose fraud in the food chain. Compr.
      Rev. Food Sci. Food Saf. 2019, 18, 425–440.
3.    Kendall, H.; Clark, B.; Rhymer, C.; Kuznesof, S.; Hajslova, J.; Tomaniova, M.; Brereton, P.; Frewer, L. A systematic review of
      consumer perceptions of food fraud and authenticity: A European perspective. Trends Food Sci. Technol. 2019, 94, 79–90.
4.    Agnoli, L.; Capitello, R.; De Salvo, M.; Longo, A.; Boeri, M. Food fraud and consumers’ choices in the wake of the horsemeat
      scandal. Br. Food J. 2016, 118, 1898–1913.
5.    Thomson, B.; Poms, R.; Rose, M. Incidents and impacts of unwanted chemicals in food and feeds. Qual. Assur. Saf. Crop. Foods
      2012, 4, 77–92.
6.    Zachmann, K.; Østby, P. Food, technology, and trust: An introduction. Hist. Technol. 2011, 27, 1–10.
7.    Tonkin, E.; Wilson, A.; Coveney, J.; Henderson, J.; Meyer, S.B.; McCarthy, M.B.; O’Reilly, S.; Calnan, M.; McGloin, A.; Kelly, E;
      et al. Food-system actors’ perspectives on trust: An international comparison. Br. Food J. 2019, 121, 561–573, doi:10.1108/BFJ-05-
      2018-0291.
8.    Yamoah, F.; Yawon, D. Assessing supermarket food shopper reaction to horsemeat scandal in the UK. Int. Rev. Manag. Mark.
      2014, 4, 98–107.
9.    ABC News. Strawberry Needle Contamination Scare: Queensland Woman Charged after Months-long Investigation. 2018;
      Available online: https://www.abc.net.au/news/2018-11-11/strawberry-needle-scare-woman-arrested-in-queensland/10486418
      (accessed on 1 March 2021).
10.   Bozic, B. Consumer trust repair: A critical literature review. Eur. Manag. J. 2017, 35, 538–547.
11.   Yu, H.; Neal, J.A.; Sirsat, S.A. Consumers’ food safety risk perceptions and willingness to pay for fresh-cut produce with lower
      risk of foodborne illness. Food Control 2018, 86, 83–89.
12.   Nuttavuthisit, K.; Thøgersen, J. Developing-Economy preferences for imported organic food products. J. Int. Consum. Mark.
      2019, 31, 225–249.
13.   Batra, R.; Ramaswamy, V.; Alden, D.; Steenkamp, J.B.E.M.; Ramachander, S. Effects of brand local and nonlocal origin on con-
      sumer attitudes in developing countries. J. Consum. Psychol. 2000, 9, 83–95.
14.   Manning, L.; Soon, J.M. Food Safety, Food Fraud, and Food Defense: A Fast Evolving Literature. J. Food Sci. 2016, 81, R823–
      R834.
15.   Röhr, A.; Lüddecke, K.; Drusch, S.; Müller, M.J.; Alvensleben, R.V. Food quality and safety––Consumer perception and public
      health concern. Food Control 2005, 16, 649–655.
16.   Yeh, C.-H.; Menozzi, D.; Török, Á. Eliciting egg consumer preferences for organic labels and omega 3 claims in Italy and Hun-
      gary. Foods 2020, 9, 1212.
17.   Thøgersen, J.; Pedersen, S.; Aschemann-Witzel, J. The impact of organic certification and country of origin on consumer food
      choice in developed and emerging economies. Food Qual. Prefer. 2019, 72, 10–30.
18.   Maehle, N.; Iversen, N.; Hem, L.; Otnes, C. Exploring consumer preferences for hedonic and utilitarian food attributes. Br. Food
      J. 2015, 117, 3039–3063.
19.   Van Rijswijk, W.; Frewer, L.J. Consumer perceptions of food quality and safety and their relation to traceability. Br. Food J. 2008,
      110, 1034–1046.
20.   Zhang, A.; Jakku, E. Australian Consumers’ Preferences for Food Attributes: A Latent Profile Analysis. Foods 2021, 10, 56.
21.   Hastie, M.; Ashman, H.; Torrico, D.; Ha, M.; Warner, R. A Mixed Method Approach for the Investigation of Consumer Re-
      sponses to Sheepmeat and Beef. Foods 2020, 9, 126.
22.   Wu, L.; Wang, S.; Zhu, D.; Hu, W.; Wang, H. Chinese consumers’ preferences and willingness to pay for traceable food quality
      and safety attributes: The case of pork. China Econ. Rev. 2015, 35, 121–136.
23.   Joshi, Y.; Rahman, Z. Factors Affecting Green Purchase Behaviour and Future Research Directions. Int. Strateg. Manag. Rev. 2015,
      3, 128–143.
24.   Seo, S.S.; Kim, K.; Nurhidayati, V.A. Satisfaction and purchase intention of imported fresh fruits based on familiarity: A case of
      Korean pears in Taiwan. Br. Food J. 2020, 122, 2895–2910, doi:10.1108/BFJ-08-2019-0639.
25.   Giampietri, E.; Verneau, F.; Giudice, T.D.; Carfora, V.; Finco, A. A Theory of Planned behaviour perspective for investigating
      the role of trust in consumer purchasing decision related to short food supply chains. Food Qual. Prefer. 2018, 64, 160–166.
26.   Kjærnes, U. Ethics and action: A relational perspective on consumer choice in the European politics of food. J. Agric. Environ.
      Ethics 2012, 25, 145–162.
27.   Kendall, H.; Kuznesof, S.; Dean, M.; Chan, M.Y.; Clark, B.; Home, R.; Stolz, H.; Zhong, Q.; Liu, C.; Brereton, P.; et al. Chinese
      consumer’s attitudes, perceptions and behavioural responses towards food fraud. Food Control 2019, 95, 339–351.
28.   Schjøll, A. Country-of-origin preferences for organic food. Org. Agric. 2017, 7, 315–327.
29.   Ortega, D.L.; Hong, S.J.; Wang, H.H.; Wu, L. Emerging markets for imported beef in China: Results from a consumer choice
      experiment in Beijing. Meat Sci. 2016, 121, 317–323.
30.   Mirosa, M.; Mangan-Walker, E. Young Chinese and functional foods for mobility health: Perceptions of importance, trust, and
      willingness to purchase and pay a premium. J. Food Prod. Mark. 2018, 24, 216–234.

===== PAGE 12 =====
Foods 2021, 10, 2490                                                                                                            12 of 15




31.   Macready, A.L.; Hieke, S.; Klimczuk-Kochańska, M.; Szumial, S.; Vranken, L.; Grunert, K.G. Consumer trust in the food value
      chain and its impact on consumer confidence: A model for assessing consumer trust and evidence from a 5-country study in
      Europe. Food Policy 2020, 92, 101880.
32.   Soon, J.M.; Liu, X. Chinese consumers’ risk mitigating strategies against food fraud. Food Control 2020, 115, 107298.
33.   Tonkin, E.; Webb, T.; Coveney,J.; Meyer, S.B.; Wilson, A.M. Consumer trust in the Australian food system–the everyday erosive
      impact of food labelling. Appetite 2016, 103, 118–127.
34.   Haas, R.; Imami, D.; Miftari, I.; Ymeri, P.; Grunert, K.; Meixner, O. Consumer Perception of Food Quality and Safety in Western
      Balkan Countries: Evidence from Albania and Kosovo. Foods 2021, 10, 160.
35.   Dang, A.K.; Tran, B.X.; Nguyen, C.T.; Le, H.T.; Do, H.T.; Nguyen, H.D.; Nguyen, L.H.; Nguyen, H.T.; Mai, H.T.; Tran, T.D.; et
      al. Consumer preference and attitude regarding online food products in Hanoi, Vietnam. Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2018,
      15, 981.
36.   Hartmann, C.; Hieke, S.; Taper, C.; Siegrist, M. European consumer healthiness evaluation of ‘Free-from’labelled food products.
      Food Qual. Prefer. 2018, 68, 377–388.
37.   El Benni, N.; Stolz, H.; Home, R.; Kendall, H.; Kuznesof, S.; Clark, B.; Dean, M.; Brereton, P.; Frewer, L.J.; Chan, M.Y; et al.
      Product attributes and consumer attitudes affecting the preferences for infant milk formula in China—A latent class approach.
      Food Qual. Prefer. 2019, 71, 25–33.
38.   Rupprecht, C.D.D.; Fujiyoshi, L.; McGreevy, S.R.; Tayasu, I. Trust me? Consumer trust in expert information on food product
      labels. Food Chem. Toxicol. 2020, 137, 111170.
39.   Wu, L.; Yin, S.; Xu, Y.; Zhu, D. Effectiveness of China’s organic food certification policy: Consumer preferences for infant milk
      formula with different organic certification labels. Can. J. Agric. Econ. 2014, 62, 545–568.
40.   Yin, S.; Chen, M.; Xu, Y.; Chen, Y. Chinese consumers’ willingness-to-pay for safety label on tomato: Evidence from choice
      experiments. China Agric. Econ. Rev. 2017, 141–155.
41.   Nuttavuthisit, K.; Thøgersen, J. The importance of consumer trust for the emergence of a market for green products: The case
      of organic food. J. Bus. Ethics 2017, 140, 323–337.
42.   Wang, J.; Tao, J.; Chu, M. Behind the label: Chinese consumers’ trust in food certification and the effect of perceived quality on
      purchase intention. Food Control 2020, 108, 106825.
43.   Moruzzo, R.; Riccioli, F.; Boncinelli, F.; Zhang, Z.; Zhao, J.; Tang, Y.; Tinacci, L.; Massai, T.; Guidi, A. Urban Consumer Trust
      and Food Certifications in China. Foods 2020, 9, 1153.
44.   Liu, R.; Gao, Z.; Snell, H.A.; Ma, H. Food safety concerns and consumer preferences for food safety attributes: Evidence from
      China. Food Control 2020, 112, 107157.
45.   Rezai, G.; Mohamed, Z.; Shamsudin, M.N. Assessment of consumers’ confidence on halal labelled manufactured food in Ma-
      laysia. Pertanika J. Soc. Sci. Humanit. 2012, 20, 33–42.
46.   Santeramo, F.G.; Lamonaca, E. Evaluation of geographical label in consumers’ decision-making process: A systematic review
      and meta-analysis. Food Res. Int. 2020, 131, 108995.
47.   Song, Y.; Qin, Z.; Yuan, Q. The impact of eco-label on the young Chinese generation: The mediation role of environmental
      awareness and product attributes in green purchase. Sustainability 2019, 11, 973.
48.   Van Wezemael, L.; Verbeke, W.; Kügler, J.O.; de Barcellos, M.D.; Grunert, K.G. European consumers and beef safety: Percep-
      tions, expectations and uncertainty reduction strategies. Food Control 2010, 21, 835–844.
49.   Feng, N.; Zhang, A.; Van Klinken, R.D.; Cui, L. An integrative model to understand consumers’ trust and willingness to buy
      imported fresh fruit in urban China. Br. Food J. 2021, 123, 2216–2234, doi:10.1108/BFJ-07-2020-0575.
50.   Yeh, C.-H.; Chen, C.-I.; Sher, P.J. Investigation on perceived country image of imported food. Food Qual. Prefer. 2010, 21, 849–
      856.
51.   Andéhn, M.; Nordin, F.; Nilsson, M.E. Facets of country image and brand equity: Revisiting the role of product categories in
      country-of-origin effect research. J. Consum. Behav. 2016, 15, 225–238.
52.   Pedersen, S.; Aschemann-Witzel, J.; Thøgersen, J. Consumers’ evaluation of imported organic food products: The role of geo-
      graphical distance. Appetite 2018, 130, 134–145.
53.   Gorostidi-Martinez, H.; Xu, W.; Zhao, X. A review of Spanish consumers’ product-country image of China. Asia Pac. J. Mark.
      Logist. 2017, doi:10.1108/APJML-09-2016-0160.
54.   Halkias, G.; Davvetas, V.; Diamantopoulos, A. The interplay between country stereotypes and perceived brand globalness/lo-
      calness as drivers of brand preference. J. Bus. Res. 2016, 69, 3621–3628.
55.   Chen, C.Y.; Mathur, P.; Maheswaran, D. The effects of country-related affect on product evaluations. J. Consum. Res. 2014, 41,
      1033–1046.
56.   Costa, C.; Carneiro, J.; Goldszmidt, R. A contingent approach to country-of-origin effects on foreign products evaluation: Inter-
      action of facets of country image with product classes. Int. Bus. Rev. 2016, 25, 1066–1075.
57.   Dekhili, S.; Achabou, M.A. Towards greater understanding of ecolabel effects: The role of country of origin. J. Appl. Bus. Res.
      2014, 30, 433–438.
58.   Gao, Z.; Yu, X.; Li, C.; McFadden, B.R. The interaction between country of origin and genetically modified orange juice in urban
      China. Food Qual. Prefer. 2019, 71, 475–484.
59.   McCarthy, B.L. Trends in organic and green food consumption in China: Opportunities and challenges for regional Australian
      exporters. J. Econ. Soc. Policy 2015, 17, 6.

===== PAGE 13 =====
Foods 2021, 10, 2490                                                                                                            13 of 15




60.   Zander, K.; Feucht, Y. Consumers’ willingness to pay for sustainable seafood made in Europe. J. Int. Food Agribus. Mark. 2018,
      30, 251–275.
61.   Denver, S.; Jensen, J.D.; Olsen, S.B.; Christensen, T. Consumer preferences for ‘Localness’ and organic food production. J. Food
      Prod. Mark. 2019, 25, 668–689.
62.   Meyerding, S.G.; Trajer, N.; Lehberger, M. What is local food? The case of consumer preferences for local food labeling of to-
      matoes in Germany. J. Clean. Prod. 2019, 207, 30–43.
63.   Ariyawardana, A.; Ganegodage, K.; Mortlock, M.Y. Consumers’ trust in vegetable supply chain members and their behavioural
      responses: A study based in Queensland, Australia. Food Control 2017, 73, 193–201.
64.   Alfnes, F.; Sharma, A. Locally produced food in restaurants: Are the customers willing to pay a premium and why? Int. J.
      Revenue Manag. 2010, 4, 238–258.
65.   Behnke, K.; Janssen, M. Boundary conditions for traceability in food supply chains using blockchain technology. Int. J. Inf.
      Manag. 2020, 52, 101969.
66.   Daoud, M.K.; Trigui, I.T. Smart Packaging: Consumer’s Perception and Diagnostic of Traceability Information. In International
      Conference on Digital Economy; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2019.
67.   Cao, S.; Powell, W.; Foth, M.; Natanelov, V.; Miller, T.; Dulleck, U. Strengthening consumer trust in beef supply chain traceabil-
      ity with a blockchain-based human-machine reconcile mechanism. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2021, 180, 105886.
68.   Meat and Livestock Australia. Commercial Application of Supply Chain Integrity and Shelf Life Systems; Meat and Livestock Aus-
      tralia: Sydney, Australia, 2020.
69.   Sander, F.; Semeijn, J.; Mahr, D. The acceptance of blockchain technology in meat traceability and transparency. Br. Food J. 2018,
      doi:10.1108/BFJ-07-2017-0365.
70.   Bumblauskas, D.; Mann, A.; Dugan, B.; Rittmer, J. A blockchain use case in food distribution: Do you know where your food
      has been? Int. J. Inf. Manag. 2020, 52, 102008.
71.   Benson, T.; Benson, T.; Lavelle, F.; Spence, M.; Elliott, C.T.; Dean, M. The development and validation of a toolkit to measure
      consumer trust in food. Food Control 2020, 110, 106988.
72.   Liu, R.; Gao, Z.; Nayga Jr., R.M.; Snell, H.A.; Ma, H. Consumers’ valuation for food traceability in China: Does trust matter?
      Food Policy 2019, 88, 101768.
73.   Menozzi, D.; Halawany-Darson, R.; Mora, C.; Giraud, G. Motives towards traceable food choice: A comparison between French
      and Italian consumers. Food Control 2015, 49, 40–48.
74.   Wu, L.; Wang, H.; Zhu, D.; Hu, W.; Wang, S. Chinese consumers’ willingness to pay for pork traceability information—The case
      of Wuxi. Agric. Econ. 2016, 47, 71–79.
75.   Matzembacher, D.E.; Stangherlin, I.D.C.; Slongo, L.A.; Cataldi, R. An integration of traceability elements and their impact in
      consumer’s trust. Food Control 2018, 92, 420–429.
76.   Regan, Á.; Raats, M.; Shan, L.C.; Wall, P.G.; McConnon, Á. Risk communication and social media during food safety crises: A
      study of stakeholders’ opinions in Ireland. J. Risk Res. 2016, 19, 119–133.
77.   Arnot, C. Perspective-Building Consumer Trust in the Food System. Food Technol. 2011, 65, 132.
78.   Anderson, W.A. The future relationship between the media, the food industry and the consumer. Br. Med. Bull. 2000, 56, 254–
      268.
79.   Tonkin, E.; Wilson, A.M.; Coveney, J.; Meyer, S.B.; Henderson, J.; McCullum, D.; Webb, T.; Ward, P.R. Consumers respond to a
      model for (re) building consumer trust in the food system. Food Control 2019, 101, 112–120.
80.   Jensen, K.K. BSE in the UK: Why the risk communication strategy failed. J. Agric. Environ. Ethics 2004, 17, 405–423.
81.   Jacob, C.J.; Lok, C.; Morley, K.; Powell, D.A. Government management of two media-facilitated crises involving dioxin contam-
      ination of food. Public Underst. Sci. 2011, 20, 261–269.
82.   Wilson, A.M.; Withall, E.; Coveney, J.; Meyer, S.B.; Henderson, J.; McCullum, D.; Webb, T.; Ward, P.R. A model for (re) building
      consumer trust in the food system. Health Promot. Int. 2017, 32, 988–1000.
83.   Falkheimer, J.; Heide, M. Trust and brand recovery campaigns in crisis: Findus Nordic and the horsemeat scandal. Int. J. Strateg.
      Commun. 2015, 9, 134–147.
84.   Hou, B.; Wu, L.; Chen, X.; Zhu, D.; Ying, R.; Tsai, F.S. Consumers’ Willingness to Pay for Foods with Traceability Information:
      Ex-Ante Quality Assurance or Ex-Post Traceability? Sustainability 2019, 11, 1464.
85.   Jin, S.; Zhang, Y.; Xu, Y. Amount of information and the willingness of consumers to pay for food traceability in China. Food
      Control 2017, 77, 163–170.
86.   Liu, C.; Li, J.; Steele, W.; Fang, X. A study on Chinese consumer preferences for food traceability information using best-worst
      scaling. PLoS ONE 2018, 13, e0206793.
87.   Lu, J.; Wu, L.; Wang, S.; Xu, L. Consumer preference and demand for traceable food attributes. Br. Food J. 2016, 118, 2140–2156,
      doi:10.1108/BFJ-12-2015-0461.
88.   Papadopoulos, A.; Sargeant, J.M.; Majowicz, S.E.; Sheldrick, B.; McKeen, C.; Wilson, J.; Dewey, C.E. Enhancing public trust in
      the food safety regulatory system. Health Policy 2012, 107, 98–103.
89.   Hoque, M.Z.; Alam, M. What determines the purchase intention of liquid milk during a food security crisis? The role of per-
      ceived trust, knowledge, and risk. Sustainability 2018, 10, 3722.
90.   Zhang, C.; Bai, J.; Wahl, T.I. Consumers’ willingness to pay for traceable pork, milk, and cooking oil in Nanjing, China. Food
      Control 2012, 27, 21–28.

===== PAGE 14 =====
Foods 2021, 10, 2490                                                                                                             14 of 15




91.  Yin, S.; Li, Y.; Xu, Y.; Chen, M.; Wang, Y. Consumer preference and willingness to pay for the traceability information attribute
     of infant milk formula: Evidence from a choice experiment in China. Br. Food J. 2017, 119, 1276–1288.
92. Wu, L.; Gong, X.; Qin, S.; Chen, X.; Zhu, D.; Hu, W.; Li, Q. Consumer preferences for pork attributes related to traceability,
     information certification, and origin labeling: Based on China’s Jiangsu Province. Agribusiness 2017, 33, 424–442.
93. Kendall, H.; Naughton, P.; Kuznesof, S.; Raley, M.; Dean, M.; Clark, B.; Stolz, H.; Home, R.; Chan, M.Y.; Zhong, Q.; et al. Food
     fraud and the perceived integrity of European food imports into China. PLoS ONE 2018, 13, e0195817.
94. My, N.H.D.; Demont, M.; Van Loo, E.J.; De Guia, A.; Rutsaert, P.; Tuan, T.H.; Verbeke, W; et al. What is the value of sustainably-
     produced rice? Consumer evidence from experimental auctions in Vietnam. Food Policy 2018, 79, 283–296.
95. Nawi, N.M.; Basri, H.N.; Kamarulzaman, N.H.; Shamsudin, M.N. Factors influencing consumers’ preferences towards meat
     and meat products with traceability systems in Malaysia. Int. Food Res. J. 2018, S157–S164.
96. Zhang, A.; Mankad, A.; Ariyawardana, A. Establishing confidence in food safety: Is traceability a solution in consumers’ eyes?
     J. Consum. Prot. Food Saf. 2020, 15, 99–107.
97. Yuan, C.; Wang, S.; Yu, X. The impact of food traceability system on consumer perceived value and purchase intention in China.
     Ind. Manag. Data Syst. 2020, 120, 810–824.
98. Henderson, J.; Coveney, J.; Ward, P.R.; Taylor, A.W. Farmers are the most trusted part of the Australian food chain: Results
     from a national survey of consumers. Aust. N. Z. J. Public Health 2011, 35, 319–324.
99. Tonkin, E.; Henderson, J.; Meyer, S.B.; Coveney, J.; Ward, P.R.; McCullum, D.; Webb, T.; Wilson, A.M. Expectations and every-
     day opportunities for building trust in the food system. Br. Food J. 2020, 123, 702–719.
100. Richards, C.; Lawrence, G.; Burch, D. Supermarkets and agro-industrial foods: The strategic manufacturing of consumer trust.
     Food Cult. Soc. 2011, 14, 29–47.
101. Henderson, J.; Ward, P.; Coveney, J.; Meyer, S. Trust in the Australian food supply: Innocent until proven guilty. Health Risk
     Soc. 2012, 14, 257–272.
102. Lupton, D.A. Lay discourses and beliefs related to food risks: An Australian perspective. Sociol. Health Illn. 2005, 27, 448–467.
103. Carfora, V.; Cavallo,C.; Caso, D.; Giudice, T.D.; Devitiis, B.D.; Viscecchia, R.; Nardone, G.; Cicia, G. Explaining consumer pur-
     chase behavior for organic milk: Including trust and green self-identity within the theory of planned behavior. Food Qual. Prefer.
     2019, 76, 1–9.
104. Zhang, L.; Zhang, L.; Xu, Y.; Oosterveer, P.; Mol, A.P.J. Consumer trust in different food provisioning schemes: Evidence from
     Beijing, China. J. Clean. Prod. 2016, 134, 269–279.
105. Li, S.; Sijtsema, S.J.; Kornelis, M.; Liu, Y.; Li, S. Consumer confidence in the safety of milk and infant milk formula in China. J.
     Dairy Sci. 2019, 102, 8807–8818.
106. Zhu, B.; Kowatthanakul, S.; Satanasavapak, P. Generation Y consumer online repurchase intention in Bangkok: Based on Stim-
     ulus-Organism-Response (SOR) model. Int. J. Retail. Distrib. Manag. 2019, doi:10.1108/IJRDM-04-2018-0071.
107. Frasquet, M.; Descals, A.M.; Ruiz-Molina, M.E. Understanding loyalty in multichannel retailing: The role of brand trust and
     brand attachment. Int. J. Retail. Distrib. Manag. 2017, 45, 608–625, doi:10.1108/IJRDM-07-2016-0118.
108. Osman, H.; D’Acunto, D.; Johns, N. Home and away: Why do consumers shy away from reporting negative experiences in the
     peer-to-peer realms? Psychol. Mark. 2019, 36, 1162–1175.
109. Ye, C.; Hofacker, C.F.; Peloza, J.; Allen, A. How online trust evolves over time: The role of social perception. Psychol. Mark. 2020,
     37, 1539–1553.
110. Zhllima, E.; Imami, D.; Canavari, M. Consumer perceptions of food safety risk: Evidence from a segmentation study in Albania.
     J. Integr. Agric. 2015, 14, 1142–1152.
111. Liu, R.; Pieniak, Z.; Verbeke, W. Food-related hazards in China: Consumers’ perceptions of risk and trust in information sources.
     Food Control 2014, 46, 291–298.
112. Bauman, A.; Bachmann, R. Online consumer trust: Trends in research. J. Technol. Manag. Innov. 2017, 12, 68–79.
113. Yue, L.; Liu, Y.; Wei, X. Influence of online product presentation on consumers’ trust in organic food. Br. Food J. 2017,
     doi:10.1108/BFJ-09-2016-0421.
114. Chopdar, P.K.; Balakrishnan, J. Consumers response towards mobile commerce applications: SOR approach. Int. J. Inf. Manag.
     2020, 53, 102106.
115. Van Doorn, J.; Mende, M.; Noble, S.M.; Hulland, J.; Ostrom, A.L.; Grewal, D.; Petersen, J.A. Domo arigato Mr. Roboto: Emer-
     gence of automated social presence in organizational frontlines and customers’ service experiences. J. Serv. Res. 2017, 20, 43–58.
116. Lu, B.; Fan, W.; Zhou, M. Social presence, trust, and social commerce purchase intention: An empirical research. Comput. Hum.
     Behav. 2016, 56, 225–237.
117. Lin, X.; Wang, X.; Hajli, N. Building e-commerce satisfaction and boosting sales: The role of social commerce trust and its ante-
     cedents. Int. J. Electron. Commer. 2019, 23, 328–363.
118. Dong, B.; Li, M.; Sivakumar, K. Online review characteristics and trust: A cross-country examination. Decis. Sci. 2019, 50, 537–
     566.
119. Chen, M.F. Consumer trust in food safety—A multidisciplinary approach and empirical evidence from Taiwan. Risk Anal. Int.
     J. 2008, 28, 1553–1569.

===== PAGE 15 =====
Foods 2021, 10, 2490                                                                                                        15 of 15




120. Buddle, E.A.; Bray, H.J. How farm animal welfare issues are framed in the Australian media. J. Agric. Environ. Ethics 2019, 32,
     357–376.
121. Bray, H.J.; Ankeny, R.A. Happy chickens lay tastier eggs: Motivations for buying free-range eggs in Australia. Anthrozoös 2017,
     30, 213–226.
