SOURCE_PDF: P0-2D_信息过载与线索稀释/Making sense of the clean label trends - A review of consumer food choice behavior_2017.pdf
EXTRACTION_STATUS: ok
PAGES: 83
NOTE: none
EXTRACTOR: poppler pdftotext -layout -enc UTF-8
---

===== PAGE 1 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

            Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’ trends: a review of consumer food

                             choice behavior and discussion of industry implications




                                                                Daniele Asioli 1,a,b,h

                                                           Jessica Aschemann-Witzelc

                                                               Vincenzina Caputod

                                                                Riccardo Vecchioe

                                                               Azzurra Annunziataf

                                                                  Tormod Næsa,g

                                                                   Paula Varelaa



                       a
                           Consumer and Sensory Science – Division of Food Science – NOFIMA AS, Ås, Norway.
                       b
                           School of Economics and Business, Norwegian University of Life Sciences, Ås, Norway.
            c
                MAPP Centre – Research on Value Creation in the Food Sector, Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark.
d
    Department of Agricultural, Food and Resources Economics, Michigan State University, East Lansing, United States.
                                   e
                                       Department of Agricultural Sciences, University Federico II, Naples, Italy.
                   f
                       Department of Economic and Legal Studies, University of Naples Parthenope, Naples, Italy.
                             g
                                 Department of Food Science - University of Copenhagen,, Copenhagen, Denmark.
      h
          Department of Agricultural Economics and Agribusiness, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, United States.




1
 Corresponding author.
Tel: + 47 64 97 01 65. Fax: +47 64 97 03 33
Email: daniele.asioli@nofima.no
                                                                           1

===== PAGE 2 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022



                                             ABSTRACT

Consumers in industrialized countries are nowadays much more interested in information about the

production methods and components of the food products that they eat, than they had been 50 years

ago. Some production methods are perceived as less “natural” (i.e. conventional agriculture) while

some food components are seen as “unhealthy” and “unfamiliar” (i.e. artificial additives). This

phenomenon, often referred to as the ‘‘clean label’’ trend, has driven the food industry to

communicate whether a certain ingredient or additive is not present or if the food has been

produced using a more “natural” production method (i.e. organic agriculture). However, so far there

is no common and objective definition of clean label. This review paper aims to fill the gap via

three main objectives, which are to a) develop and suggest a definition that integrates various

understandings of clean label into one single definition, b) identify the factors that drive consumers’

choices through a review of recent studies on consumer perception of various food categories

understood as clean label with the focus on organic, natural and ‘free from’ artificial

additives/ingredients food products and c) discuss implications of the consumer demand for clean

label food products for food manufacturers as well as policy makers. We suggest to define clean

label, both in a broad sense, where consumers evaluate the cleanliness of product by assumption

and through inference looking at the front-of-pack label and in a strict sense, where consumers

evaluate the cleanliness of product by inspection and through inference looking at the back-of-pack

label. Results shows that while ‘health’ is a major consumer motive, a broad diversity of drivers

influence the clean label trend with particular relevance of intrinsic or extrinsic product

characteristics and socio-cultural factors. However, ‘free from’ artificial additives/ingredients food

products tend to differ from organic and natural products. Food manufacturers should take the

                                                   2

===== PAGE 3 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

diversity of these drivers into account in developing new products and communication about the

latter. For policy makers, it is important to work towards a more homogenous understanding and

application of the term of clean label and identify a uniform definition or regulation for ‘free from’

artificial additives/ingredients food products, as well as work towards decreasing consumer

misconceptions. Finally, multiple future research avenues are discussed.




KEY WORDS: clean label, consumer preferences, food industry, review, drivers, trend, food

products.



1. INTRODUCTION

During the last century, industrialized countries have overcome lack of food security with the key

contribution of agrifood industrialization (Lusk, 2016; Meneses, Cannon, & Flores, 2014). Food

processing has played a crucial role as it allowed extending the shelf life of food products, reduced

food losses and waste, as well as improved nutrient availability and optimization (Augustin et al.,

2016; Fellows, 2004; Weaver et al., 2014). However, day-to-day consumer perception focuses on

other aspects than these achievements. In modern societies, the increasingly globalized markets and

greater processing in the food chain has contributed to a perceived distance and knowledge gap

between people and food manufacturers (e.g. how food is produced, where is it produced, etc.)

(Princen, 1997; Weis, 2007).

Industrialization and globalisation go hand in hand with a higher and more man-made risk, which

increases citizens’ perception of risks of modernity (Beck, 1992). For instance, food contamination

accidents have affected Europe in the last decades, such as BSE 2 and dioxin (Bánáti, 2011;


2
    Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy.
                                                   3

===== PAGE 4 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

Knowles, Moody, & McEachern, 2007). Consumers are concerned about the heavy use of

pesticides in the conventional and intensive agricultural practices (Aktar, Sengupta, & Chowdhury,

2009), the use of artificial ingredients, additives or colorants such as E133 (Lucová, Hojerová,

Pažoureková, & Klimová, 2013), and the adoption of controversial food technologies like GMOs 3

(Grunert, Bredahl, & Scholderer, 2003). This has prompted consumers to become skeptical or

worried about adverse health effects entailed in this food system (Meneses et al., 2014). Moreover,

the growing public concern about the contribution of the food system to climate change and its

overall negative effects on sustainability (Godfray et al. 2013) have led consumers to question the

environmental and social consequences of food production (Asioli et al., 2014; Caputo, Nayga, &

Scarpa, 2013).



Consumer´s choose foods to be satiated and fed with nutrients, other important drivers are flavour

and price (Lynn Jayne Frewer & van Trijp, 2007; MacFie, 2007). However, it is often proposed that

today´s food consumption in industrialized societies is particularly affected by three major trends:

health concerns, sustainability, and convenience (Grunert, 2013). Health concerns are driven by

consumers’ affluence, but also explained by the increasing number of food and lifestyle related

diseases (i.e. diabetes, obesity, etc.) (Kearney, 2010; Weis, 2007) and allergies and intolerances

towards some specific food products or components such as gluten. These factors have encouraged

consumers to be more interested in healthy food products that support healthy lifestyles into older

ages and reduce the risk of certain diseases. Sustainability interest is explained by the growing

awareness of environmental pollution caused by conventional agricultural practices. This has

resulted most prominently in an increased expansion of organic agriculture and markets



3
    Genetically Modified Organisms.
                                                  4

===== PAGE 5 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

(Aschemann, Hamm, Naspetti, & Zanoli, 2007) and might also explain why consumers are looking

for e.g. ‘local food’ products (food miles) (Adams & Salois, 2010) and are willing to pay higher

prices for water-saving products (Krovetz, 2016). Convenience relates to the number of meals that

are eaten out-of-home or home-delivered compared to home-made. This number has dramatically

increased during the last decades (Lachat et al., 2012), which signifies that consumers are interested

in added characteristics of food products that save time (e.g. frozen food, ready meals,

microwavable, etc.).



The trends of healthiness and sustainability have triggered consumers into considering which

components are used in the food products that they eat in everyday life (Euromonitor International,

2016). A new trend in food products has emerged, which is often summarized under the umbrella of

the so-called “clean label” (Cheung et al., 2015; Joppen, 2006; Varela & Fiszman, 2013; Zink,

1997) and has been taken up by a multitude of food industry stakeholders (Osborne, 2015). The

term clean label itself appeared for the first time during the 1980s when consumers started to avoid

the E-numbers 4 listed on food labels because they were allegedly associated with negative health

effects (Joppen, 2006). However, the use of the term clean label dramatically exploded ten years

ago. One of the leading food science journals, “Food Technology Magazine,” cited the term ‘‘clean

label’’ twice in 2000, 18 times in 2011 and 77 times in 2016 in their articles, clearly indicating a

growing importance of the term (Swientik, 2017).



The food industry has started to respond to the increasing consumer demand of such clean label

products by supplying food products that are perceived as ‘cleaner’ (Katz & Williams, 2011). For

4
 E-numbers are the code numbers used to identify food additives in EU. E-numbers have been shown to be safe and
officially approved for use in food across the EU (i.e. E202 is the Potassium sorbate) (Emerton & Choi, 2008). This
nomenclature has been extended worldwide to the Codex Alimentarius Commission (Carocho et al., 2014).
                                                          5

===== PAGE 6 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

example, in 2010 Heinz tomato ketchup was reformulated to remove high fructose corn syrup from

the ingredient list and was renamed as Simply Heinz (Katz & Williams, 2011). Recent data shows

that during 2013, almost 27% of the new packaged food products launched in Europe had some sort

of clean label (Ingredion, 2014).



Despite the increasing market shift toward clean label food products and a large number of different

studies that have investigated goods carrying clean label, it is not yet clear what a clean label

exactly means. So far, a jointly agreed upon definition or specific regulations/legislations does not

exist (Busken, 2013; Joppen, 2006; Varela & Fiszman, 2013), leaving the interpretation as rather

subjective for consumers and food practitioners. A clear definition of clean label that can improve

understanding of consumer perception and behavior, guide manufacturers in food development and

communication, and support policymakers’ efforts in providing a targeted regulatory framework is

needed (Katz & Williams, 2011). Moreover, to the best knowledge of the authors, a coherent

overview of the factors that affect consumers’ perception of food products that are related to the

clean label trend does not exist (Cheung et al., 2015; Zink, 1997).

This paper reviews the literature from the last six years on consumers’ perceptions and preferences

of selected food categories understood as clean label products, aiming to (i) provide a holistic

definition that integrates various understandings of clean label into one single definition; (ii)

identify the main drivers that motivate consumers to choose clean label products, and (iii) derive

implications for food manufacturers, policy makers and future research avenues. The overall goal of

this paper is to advance the understanding of how the clean label trend is viewed by both

consumers and food industry professionals and to advance research into this trend based on a

common definition.


                                                    6

===== PAGE 7 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022



In section 2, we briefly describe some important theoretical issues related to consumer behavior as

background for understanding the basic processes of consumer decision making. Then, we suggest

a definition of clean label based on consumption trends observed in various food markets and the

underlying consumer behavior theory. We then outline the literature review methodology and

present the results of the review on the factors that affect consumers’ choice behavior for such

products. The paper concludes with a discussion of industrial and policymakers’ challenges, the

implications of the findings, and future research needs and directions.



2. CONSUMER BEHAVIOR THEORETICAL BACKGROUND

Looking at related theories or theoretical terms can help understanding why consumers show an

increasing interest in clean label, and it can help to understand the role that consumer perception

plays in explaining this trend. We regard two distinctions as particularly relevant for explaining the

consumer behavior driving the clean label trend. Firstly, we consider dual-processing theories

which differentiate between two modes of processing called central and peripheral processing.

Secondly, we consider the distinction of goals as either approach or avoidance goals, and the related

individual trait of being oriented towards promotion or prevention orientation. Both will be briefly

introduced and their contribution to explaining consumer interest in clean label products discussed.

Afterwards, when presenting our definition and categorization of clean label, we will refer to these

theories to support the categories of clean label that we suggest.




                                                   7

===== PAGE 8 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

2.1 Dual-processing theory

It is broadly acknowledged that consumer food choices are typically conducted in an environment

of information overload (Mick, Broniarczyk, & Haidt, 2004). This holds true even more today than

5 - 10 years ago, given that supermarket assortments are growing and the simultaneous use of

multiple media for information access and for marketing communication is increasingly widespread

(Dholakia et al., 2010). Involvement with food overall differs greatly depending on the individual’s

value orientation or the relevance of food for expression of lifestyle, personality, or identity (Brunsø

& Grunert, 1995; Eertmans, Victoir, Vansant, & den Bergh, 2005; Thøgersen, 2017). However, for

most consumers – at least from industrialized and developed countries –, each single food choice

has little impact on household budget and is repeated very often, which furthers habitual and routine

choice decision processes to economize efforts (Hoyer, 1984). In addition, the situational context

often impedes spending cognitive resources on engaging in deep processing of information about

the product (Mick et al., 2004). Due to these reasons, food choices are often depicted as conducted

in a low involvement situation (Beharrell & Denison, 1995; Gilles Laurent, 1985; Knowx &

Walker, 2003). Thus, consumers are ascribed low motivation, and, in addition, it is assumed that the

choice context results in consumers’ low ability or opportunity to process information. According to

dual processing theories (Evans, 2003) such as the elaboration-likelihood model (Kitchen, Kerr,

Schultz, McColl, & Pals, 2014; Petty, Cacioppo, & Schumann, 1983), this means that food

consumers typically process the greater share of information about foods peripherally and not

centrally, that they more likely rely on using informational or visual cues that allow inferences and

thus a ‘short-cut’ to a judgment, and that they often are not conscious of the heuristics they apply.




                                                   8

===== PAGE 9 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

With regard to the clean label trend, we argue that hints about the item being a clean label food are

used as such cues. We argue that their easy usage and inference to desirable, but unobservable

characteristics explains the popularity of clean label. Typically, consumers might use cues found on

the front of the package (FOP) such as visuals indicating naturalness, organic certification logos, or

free-from claims of producers, thus, these products might be perceived as clean label. However, we

argue that not only peripheral processing is expected to play a role for clean label, but also central

processing. In some cases consumers might proceed to access information on the back of the pack

(BOP) in store or, even more likely, at home. There is a greater likelihood that consumers who are

engaging in this effort are characterized by greater involvement and thus motivation to process, or

that the situation at home provides better opportunity to look at information and engage with it,

thus, identifying the product as clean label. Therefore, central, more in-depth and conscious

information processing will occur more likely at home. Consumers might then look at the

ingredient information or nutrition facts more closely, and inspect and assess whether or not they

think the product is a clean label food in their opinion. However, given that consumers might not

find this easy to assess, they might nevertheless rely on heuristics, such as the degree to which

ingredient names sound chemical or are unknown, or the mere length of the ingredient list. In

addition to using this observable feature as a cue to a desired quality, consumers might also favor

products with understandable, short, known and simple ingredient lists in order to reduce the

cognitive effort needed in assessing the product.



2.2 Approach versus avoidance goals and regulatory focus

Consumers make decisions for products because they have identified a need. This need motivates

them into action. They are more aware of the goal of their action than of the underlying need that


                                                    9

===== PAGE 10 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

had triggered it (Schiffman & Wisenblit, 2015). Goals can be typically categorized as approach or

avoidance goals; that is, goals to achieve a certain desirable state, feature or situation, or goals of

avoiding those elements (Aaker & Lee, 2001). According to regulatory focus theory, consumers

might differ to the extent that they are more oriented towards actions promoting attainment of a

goal or towards actions preventing something that might inhibit attainment of the goal (Higgins,

2005). When it comes to food, various researchers have suggested that consumers might be either

motivated by attaining something, as for example health and well-being, or avoiding something, as

for example risk of disease, a distinction that has been applied to nutrition and health claims (van

Kleef, van Trijp, & Luning, 2005). It has also been suggested that different goals can help explain

different strategies in reading nutrition information (Chalamon & Nabec, 2016). Additionally, an

individual’s promotion vs. prevention focus can contribute to understanding food choice of an

individual (de Boer & Schösler, 2016) or might explain impulsiveness in purchase situations (Das,

2015). The inference biases of a ‘negative bias’ or an ‘optimism bias’ are also worth mentioning in

this relation. The negative bias suggests that a single ingredient perceived as negative can lead to an

exaggerated negative assessments of the food as a whole (in the context of clean label, a single

unfamiliar ingredient in the ingredient list to disliking the food to an extent not objectively

explained by the share of and role of the said ingredient). The optimisms bias, in turn, suggests that

a food ingredient perceived as positive might lead to an exaggerated positive assessment of the food

as a whole (in the context of clean label, a single, sought-after ingredient that is regarded as natural

causing that the food overall to be perceived as more natural, even though the share and role does

not merit such a change in perception, or the food ingredients being organic leading to unfounded

‘halo-effects’ of assuming a range of other positive effects as well).




                                                    10

===== PAGE 11 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

With regard to the clean label trend, we argue that, at first glance, some of the trends subsumed

under the term of clean label might be categorized as ‘approach’, as for example natural or organic,

while others might be categorized as ‘avoidance’, as for example all ‘free from’ claimed foods.

Regulatory focus theory would suggest that consumers who give importance to one or the other

might differ in their orientation, and communication to these groups should differ accordingly, in

order to ensure a ‘fit’ (Hoyer, 1984). However, research and literature into the drivers of preference

for natural and organic indicate that motivation to ‘avoid something’ plays a crucial role. For

example, this might be expressed as modern health worries about new technologies and substances

(Devcich, Pedersen, & Petrie, 2007), negative attitudes to chemicals (Dickson-Spillmann, Siegrist,

& Keller, 2011), avoidance of contagion or unknown descriptors (Evans, de Challemaison, & Cox,

2010), and skepticism towards functional foods (Aschemann-Witzel, Maroscheck, & Hamm, 2013).



Thus, while there might be consumers looking into attaining a goal by the purchase of clean label

food, we suggest that a great part of the underlying motivation is explained by avoidance and

prevention, also for categories that appear rather positively phrased such as natural and organic, and

even more so for the free-from category of clean label food.



3. WHAT IS A ‘‘CLEAN LABEL’’?

To date there is no an established, objective and common definition of what a clean label is, but

rather several definitions or interpretations, often provided by market trend reports but not backed

up by consumer behavior research or theory (Osborne, 2015). To give an example of how clean

label appears conceptualized in media, one can cite Michael Pollan. He suggested in his famous

recent book In Defence of Food that consumers should not: “…eat anything with more than five


                                                  11

===== PAGE 12 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

ingredients, or ingredients you can't pronounce” (Pollan, 2008). Turning to more detailed

description, we find that Ingredion (2014) recommends to consumers that “a ‘clean label’

positioned on the pack means the product can be positioned as ‘natural’, ‘organic’ and/or ‘free

from additives/preservatives’.” The same report suggests that for food producers “using a ‘clean

label’ positioning means using ingredients that are generally accepted by consumers – those that

they might find in their kitchen cupboards. The ingredient list should be short, simple and feature

minimally processed ingredients where possible. It should not include names that sound like

chemicals or e-numbers.” Edwards (2013) defines a clean label “by being produced free of

‘chemicals’ additives, having easy-to-understand ingredient lists, and being produced by use of

traditional techniques with limited processing.” One of the key questions is which ingredients may

be part of a clean label, or, more importantly, which ingredients define a clean label product by

their absence. Busken (2013) proposes that the answer to this depends on the consumer perception

of an ingredient.



All of the above-mentioned definitions clearly indicate that the interpretation of a clean label is

subjective as it might depend on the familiarity of the consumer with the food ingredients and/or

production method, and the inferences consumer draw from this information. To illustrate, it might

differ a lot which ingredient is similar to kitchen cupboard items, since traditional processing

techniques and what is regarded as non-worrisome varies from country to country. Such

subjectivity requires that a univocal and objective definition of clean label should integrate these

varying consumer perceptions and account for studies exemplifying how consumers verbalize clean

label and name associations. The above mentioned definitions or interpretations also show that

some authors might describe clean label as if it links directly to certain food categories or


                                                  12

===== PAGE 13 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

ingredients, while consumers’ perception as resulting from the communication on the package (the

nutrition label, or any other cue) in interaction with the consumer´s processing and individual

preferences, is the underlying key to the trend. To illustrate, the food processors can position the

same food in different ways, while the same food might be distinctively perceived by different

consumers. Ironically, the so-called clean label is not really a label, as producers will never be able

to use “clean label” as a claim. However, the term is indeed increasingly used by food manufactures

and researchers, and consumers perceive and asses how clean a label is, a representation of food

products' characteristics demanded by modern consumers from industrialized societies.

For example, on clean label perceptions by consumers, it has been found that consumers try to

avoid certain food products with “unfamiliar” (Moskowitz, Beckley, & Resurreccion, 2012)

artificial additives/ingredients which might be perceived as artificial chemicals, or products

produced with production methods that are perceived as far from ‘Mother Nature’ (e.g. GMO). A

recent global consumer survey indicated that the percentage of consumers who avoided at least five

separate ingredients or food attributes grew from 35 % (2015) to 53% (2016) (Euromonitor

International, 2016). This trend is confirmed by several other studies, which show that among the

ten different trends affecting food industry in the new millennium there is a strong tendency of

consumers to prefer foods which are organic and natural (Euromonitor International, 2016; Katz &

Williams, 2011; Sloan, 1999), without preservatives or perceived negative characteristics (i.e. high

fat, high sugar, etc.). Furthermore, a recent global survey conducted by Canadian researchers which

involved almost 30,000 consumers from 31 countries found that consumers infer a clean label

mainly from food products that show natural, organic logos and free from artificial ingredients

(Gelski, 2016). Other associations were “free from allergens”, “no GMOs”, “minimally processed”,




                                                  13

===== PAGE 14 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

“simple/short ingredient lists” and “transparent packaging.” All of these associations might be

relevant for some consumers to infer the cleanness of food products (Gelski, 2016).



Consumer behavior theory and respective research evidence suggest that consumers either know a

product has a certain characteristic because they have sought the respective information, or assume

it to have the characteristic because they infer it via some other cues believed to be indicators of the

desired characteristic. Consumer behavior theory and respective research also suggests that

consumers seek certain characteristics of a food, while they avoid others. Information about food

ingredients can be located on the front-of-pack (FOP) or on the back-of-pack (BOP) 5 of a food

product. The FOP information (short claims and logos) seeks to provide consumers with simplified

‘at-a-glance’ information to supplement the detailed information provided BOP (ingredient list,

nutrition fact panels) (Draper et al., 2013). The different types of information might be processed to

lesser or greater extent peripherally versus centrally.



Accordingly, we propose that consumers can access information on clean label by looking at FOP

and BOP information (Figure 1). Based on the FOP information, consumers might interpret a

product as clean label, given they find information that can serve as a cue to the clean label

characteristic. Thus, the characteristic is inferred by assumption and foods with textual or visual

claims (i.e. “natural products”) or logos (e.g. “organic”), simple labels (e.g. “Simply Heinz”) or

“free-from additives/preservatives” (e.g. “free from palm oil”) are defined as clean label products in

a broad sense. Based on the BOP information, consumers interpret a product as clean label by

inspection given that they are looking at the ingredients list and nutrition facts panels



5
    In this definition including the sides of a package.
                                                           14

===== PAGE 15 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

communicating the clean label characteristic of reporting ingredients “short and simple”, not

containing “artificial ingredients”, “not chemical-sounding”, and only containing “kitchen cupboard

ingredients” which are expected to be familiar to consumers. These food products are clean label

products in a strict sense.



Figure 1 – A proposed definition and concept of ‘‘clean label’’

                                   <<Please, place here figure 1>>




From the proposed definition of clean label and the consumer research that has shown which food

categories are assumed to possess characteristics related to clean label, we can identify categories of

food products from which consumers can infer the ‘cleanliness’ of food products. In this review

paper, due to space limitations, we decided to focus attention on three categories of clean label:

organic, natural and ‘free from’ artificial additives/ingredients, as we argue these are the major

groups of relevance (Schroeder, 2016), and that factors driving consumer perception and behaviour

from this literature stream will likely be predictive for other categories of clean label.



4. FACTORS DRIVING CONSUMERS’ PERCEPTIONS AND PREFERENCES FOR

   CLEAN LABEL FOOD PRODUCTS




4.1 Methodology

A literature search has been conducted by investigating the following four online catalogues:

Scopus, Science Direct, AgEcon Search, and Web of Science. We used the following keywords or

keyword combinations: “label”, “organic”, “natural”, “free from”, “artificial”, “additives”,
                                                   15

===== PAGE 16 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

“colourants”, “ingredients”, “clean label”, “consumers”, “perception”, “behaviour”, “preference”,

“choice”, and “food” in the title or the abstract. The review was restricted to English-language,

peer-reviewed empirical studies examining consumers’ perceptions and preferences for the specific

categories of clean label food products mentioned above, published in scientific journals during the

last six years (2012 – 2017). The decision to limit the search to the last six years comes from the

need to offer an overview of the latest studies. However, with a view to incorporating important

references needed for a more comprehensive understanding of the phenomena, older references

have also been included where appropriate, as well as review papers on the topic.



A total of 187 articles were found based on titles and/or abstracts (110 for organic, 46 for natural,

29 for ‘free from’ artificial additives/ingredients food products). Only the articles belonging to the

following subject areas were extracted: social sciences, food science, sensory science, marketing,

business management and economics. Finally, a total of 95 (54 for organic, 25 for natural, 16 ‘free

from’ artificial additives/ingredients food products) articles were read in full length and were

included. Tables A1, A2 and A3, reported in appendix, provides a summary of selected articles

respectively for organic, natural and ‘free from’ artificial additives/ingredients food products.

For each category, a number of factors that drive consumers’ perceptions and preferences of clean

label food products were identified and commented on within the literature. In order to have a

coherent and common way of identifying and categorising the factors, we used the well-known

model proposed by Mojet (Köster, 2009) which identifies the essential categories of factors that

influence eating and drinking behaviour and food choice (Figure 2).



Figure 2 - Essential factors that influence eating and drinking behaviour and food choice.


                                                  16

===== PAGE 17 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

                                  <<Please, place here figure 2>>




4.2 Factors that drive consumers’ perceptions and preferences for organic labeled food

   products

It is widely recognized that organic food products represent one of the fastest-growing segments of

the food market in many countries around the world (FIBL, 2017; IFOAM, 2015). Organic

agriculture is a production system that sustains the health of soils, ecosystems, and people. It relies

on ecological processes, biodiversity, and cycles adapted to local conditions, rather than the use of

inputs with adverse effects. Organic agriculture is based on principles of health, ecology, fairness,

and care (IFOAM, 2015).



There is a considerable amount of literature which attempts to understand the factors affecting

consumers’ attitudes and preferences for organic food products using different models or

frameworks (for recent reviews see Aertsens, Verbeke, Mondelaers, & van Huylenbroeck, 2009;

Hemmerling, Hamm, & Spiller, 2015; Schleenbecker & Hamm, 2013; Shashi, Kottala, & Singh,

2015). In this section a brief overview of factors that drive consumers’ preferences for organic food

is provided. A total of 54 papers have been identified (Table A1). According to the Mojet (Köster,

2009) simplified model, all six categories of factors that drive consumers’ preferences toward

organic labeled food products were identified in reviewing those papers, but with differing

importance in the number of concrete factors (here called sub-factors), as reported in Figure 3.




                                                   17

===== PAGE 18 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022



Figure 3 – Essential factors that drive consumers’ perceptions and preferences for organic

labeled food products: adapted from Mojet model. Sub-factors were identified from the

literature review of 54 papers on “organic”.

                                   <<Please, place here figure 3>>




Considering the socio-cultural factors, a common result from the reviewed studies is that personal

norms and ethical values strongly affect consumers’ attitudes and buying behavior of organic food

products (Aertsens, Verbeke, et al., 2009; Hemmerling et al., 2015; Mørk, Bech-Larsen, Grunert, &

Tsalis, 2017; Shashi et al., 2015). In particular, universalism value, which includes environmental

protection and animal welfare, has a positive influence, especially for regular organic consumers

rather than occasional ones (Aertsens, Mondelaers, & van Huylenbroeck, 2009; Mørk et al., 2017;

Pino, Peluso, & Guido, 2012; Thøgersen, de Barcellos, Perin, & Zhou, 2015). Mørk et al. (2017)

found that collectivist values affect attitude toward organic products also in the institutional/public

setting. In contrast, Rahnama (2017) found that for Iranian women social and emotional values do

not have a significant impact on organic food choices. However, Aertsens et al. (2009) in their

literature review stated that egocentric values, such as health and taste, are stronger drivers for

organic food purchases rather than altruistic values. In this regard, Husic-Mehmedovic, Arslanagic-

Kalajdzic, Kadic-Maglajlic, & Vajnberger (2017) found that life equilibrium, in terms of more

balanced and caring approach towards one’s own life, has a strong, positive effect on perceived

intrinsic organic food quality attributes. A second sub-factor is represented by the cultural capital.

Indeed, Agovino, Crociata, Quaglione, Sacco, & Sarra (2017) found that for Italian consumers

participation in cultural activities has a positive impact on the purchase organic products.

                                                   18

===== PAGE 19 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

A third sub-factor is the level of consumer skepticism and lack of trust towards organic

certification that impacts negatively on consumers’ buying behavior (Janssen & Hamm, 2012a;

Nuttavuthisit & Thøgersen, 2017; Vecchio, Annunziata, Krystallis, & Pomarici, 2015). The amount

of additional information, especially related to the environmental and health effects, represents a

third sub-factor linked to an increase of consumers’ willingness to pay (WTP) (Vecchio, Van Loo,

& Annunziata, 2016). Furthermore, general trust in information and trust in media are statistically

significant in influencing organic purchases (Dumortier, Evans, Grebitus, & Martin, 2017).

Education and household composition represents another sub-factor related to the socio-cultural

area. Dimitri and Dettmann (2012) and Paul and Rana (2012) found that consumers with higher

education levels, as well married households or households with young children, are associated

with an increased likelihood of purchasing organic food products.



With reference to the intrinsic product characteristics we identified three sub-factors. The superior

product quality in terms of nutritional properties and health promoting effects represents two sub-

factors that are increasingly gaining relevance for organic food consumption (Aertsens, Verbeke, et

al., 2009; Hasimu, Marchesini, & Canavari, 2017; Hemmerling, Asioli, & Spiller, 2016; Dumortier,

Evans, Grebitus, & Martin, 2017). Consumers perceive organic food products as healthier and safer

(Zagata, 2012; Bryła, 2016; Hasimu et al., 2017; Grzybowska-Brzezinska, Grzywinska-Rapca,

Zuchowski, & Borawski, 2017) , as well as an investment in individual health (Kriwy & Mecking,

2012). Other studies also found that consumers estimated organic food to have better nutritional

properties and lower calories than those without the organic label (Lee, Shimizu, Kniffin, &

Wansink, 2013; Pino et al., 2012). Bruschi, Shershneva, Dolgopolova, Canavari, & Teuber (2015)

in their study on Russian consumers, identified positive beliefs about the reduced use of additives


                                                  19

===== PAGE 20 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

and food safety as the only factors that significantly affect organic food purchases. Sensory

attributes represent the third sub-factor. Taste is an important criterion for organic food purchases

and an important predictor for repeated purchases (Asioli et al., 2014; Hemmerling, Asioli, et al.,

2016), as well as beliefs about how organic foods taste (Bernard & Liu, 2017). However, while

Hemmerling et al. (2013) found that the presence of an organic label on food products may lead to

an enhancement of taste perception, Schuldt & Hannahan (2013) demonstrated that organic foods

were rated as less tasty than conventional ones and Bi et al. (2015) found that consumers’ WTP for

the sensory attribute was negative for organic juice. On the contrary, Pagliarini, Laureati, & Gaeta

(2013) have shown that the organic and conventional wines differed marginally in the intensity of

sensory descriptors and that these differences did not influence consumers liking. Among sensory

attributes, flavor and odor were also identified as important in influencing consumers’ choice

(Asioli et al., 2014). Finally, Hemmerling, Asioli, et al. (2016) found several differences in

European consumers’ value for the concept of the “Core Organic Taste - COT” which is based on

the intrinsic attributes of organic food, those having an impact on sensory food properties.



With reference to the extrinsic product characteristics, we identified four sub-factors. Product

sustainability, related to biodiversity and natural resources conservation, as well as lower energy

consumption, plays a key role in influencing attitudes and behavior toward organic food products

(Shashi et al., 2015). Also animal welfare, fair trade and local origin represent central drivers that

explain WTP for organic food (Zanoli et al., 2013). The protection of small farms and rural

communities also impacts WTP (De Magistris & Gracia, 2016; Petrescu, Petrescu-Mag, Burny, &

Azadi, 2017). Labels and certification represent the second sub-factor and are widely

acknowledged to be crucial elements for recognition of organic products and to generate trust in its


                                                   20

===== PAGE 21 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

credence attributes (Drexler, Fiala, Havlíčková, Potůčková, & Souček, 2017; Janssen & Hamm,

2012a, 2012b; Liang, 2016). Samant & Seo (2016) demonstrate that the presence of organic label

affect quality perception of chicken-meat products as a function of consumers’ understanding level

of the label claims. Nevertheless, some studies revealed a general low awareness about organic

certification schemes and logos, especially among European consumers (Van Loo, Diem, Pieniak,

& Verbeke, 2013; Zander, 2014; Zander, Padel, & Zanoli, 2015).

Other studies have also examined the importance of organic labelling as a sustainability

certification (Silva, Bioto, Efraim, & Queiroz, 2017; Van Loo et al., 2015; Van Loo, Caputo,

Nayga, & Verbeke, 2014; Vecchio & Annunziata, 2015) showing that, compared with other

sustainability labels (e.g. rainforest or carbon foot print) organic is the highest valued and best

known label.

The presence of health claims represents the third sub-factor. Consumers tend to consider organic

products carrying health claims as healthier (Schleenbecker & Hamm, 2013), especially occasional

organic consumers (Aschemann-Witzel et al., 2013). On the contrary, Gineikiene, Kiudyte, &

Degutis (2017) show that skepticism toward health claims has a negative impact on the perceived

healthiness of both organic and conventional products.

Finally, several studies converge on the conclusion that the higher price of organic food products

compared to conventional products negatively influences consumers’ choice when shopping and

generates less repeated purchases (Aschemann-Witzel & Zielke, 2017; Bravo et al., 2013; Marian,

Chrysochou, Krystallis, & Thøgersen, 2014; Rödiger & Hamm, 2015). However, it should be noted

that Bruschi, Shershneva, Dolgopolova, Canavari, & Teuber (2015) found that Russian consumers

consider the high price of organic food to be a quality indicator, thus the premium price for these

products is accepted.


                                                   21

===== PAGE 22 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022



Considering biological and physiological factors, gender can affect the likelihood to purchase

organic food. In particular, women are more likely to buy organic foods than men (Petrescu et al.,

2017; Van Loo, Caputo, Nayga, Meullenet, & Ricke, 2011; Vecchio et al., 2016) as they tend to be

the primary food shoppers of the household and they are more aware and sensible of food safety

and health issues, compared to men (Aertsens, Verbeke, et al., 2009). In addition, age represents an

important factor, as younger consumers are more likely to purchase organic food (Dumortier et al.,

2017).



Psychological factors related to modern health worries due to the widespread use of pesticides,

antibiotics, and hormones in food processing are strictly related to preferences for organic food

products (Hemmerling, Canavari, & Spiller, 2016).



Finally, among the situational factors the product availability represents a sub-factor that can affect

the decision to purchase organic food (Aertsens, Verbeke, et al., 2009). Several papers show that

lack of availability and high price represent the main deterrents for buying organic and are the

principal determinants of the attitude–behavior gap 6 for organic consumers (Aschemann-Witzel &

Niebuhr Aagaard, 2014; Aschemann-Witzel & Zielke, 2017). In addition, Ellison, Duff, Wang, &

White (2016) suggest that retail outlets are a crucial factor with two moderating effects on

consumer perception of organic food, the first is on the expected taste and the other on brand trust.

Petrescu et al. (2017) found that Romanian consumers perceive farmers’ markets and self-

production products as the main sources/locations for purchasing uncertified organic food.

6
  The attitude–behaviour gap describes a situation where consumers express a positive attitudes towards a product or a
favorable buying intention, but their actual behaviour falls short to these due to a number of reasons (Carrington,
Neville, & Whitwell, 2010).
                                                          22

===== PAGE 23 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022



4.3 Factors that drive consumers’ preferences for natural food products

Nowadays, the attribute “natural” is one of the most-used claims in food marketing, probably

because it seems to improve the consumer’s quality perception of food products (Coppola &

Verneau, 2010). The growing trend towards naturalness of food products involves both the organic

food market, considered to be an important category of natural food, as well as the conventional

food industry that in recent years has increased the offer of products reporting natural claims on the

label (Hemmerling, Canavari, et al., 2016). Indeed, over the past years the “natural claim” has

become one of the leading label claims on new food products launched both in US (Mintel, 2015)

and EU markets (Ingredion, 2014). Despite this growing spread of food products claimed to be

“natural”, the naturalness of a food product is still a rather vague concept, quite difficult to define

properly (Rozin, 2006; Siipi, 2013). Indeed, a universally and formally accepted definition of food

naturalness does not exist in the worldwide food market. Rozin (2006) and Rozin et al. (2004) have

made an extensive contribution to understanding what is the meaning of “natural” for consumers

and what influences consumers’ preference for natural food products. The word natural evokes to

consumers mostly positive associations, leading to the perception of natural products as tastier,

healthier or more environment-friendly. In addition, Franchi (2012) suggested that the term

‘natural’ is used as a brand representing healthiness, reliability and reassurance in terms of safety

and security of food to consumers. Siipi (2013) highlighted how the ambiguous nature of the

current uses of the term “naturalness” represents a serious risk for consumers misunderstanding or

misbehaving, in particular regarding the connection with its healthiness. The scientific literature

often considers the attribute natural as an additional or subordinated aspect of organic food or of

non-genetically modified products (non-GMOs) (Hemmerling, Canavari, et al., 2016; Siipi, 2013).


                                                   23

===== PAGE 24 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

Consequently, the effects of natural claims on consumers’ perceptions and preferences have

received substantially less attention in consumer behavior and food marketing literature. A total of

25 articles have been identified (Table A2) and we found six factors of the Mojet model (Köster

2009) applying, as reported in Figure 4.



Considering the socio-cultural factors, Rozin et al. (2004) suggested that both ideational and

instrumental reasons 7 play a central role in affecting consumers’ preferences towards natural food

products. However, other literature reports contrasting findings: while Thompson (2011) and Rozin,

Fischler, & Shields-Argelès (2012) proposed that ideological beliefs are more relevant than

instrumental beliefs, Li & Chapman (2012) suggested that preference for natural is mainly

influenced by beliefs about natural products in general because they are perceived as healthier and

safer than products that are not claimed to be natural. Dubé et al. (2016) found the existence of

cross-cultural differences between Americans and Indians in their perceptions and attitudes toward

naturally nutritious products, connected with their cultural differences. They conclude that Western

consumers (i.e. from the US) are becoming increasingly skeptical to the advances in food and

agriculture technologies and more in favor of purchasing natural, organic, and local food products;

meanwhile, in developing countries, such as India, the industrialized food supply system is

considered a symbol of modernization and better living standards.

Furthermore, knowledge of legal meaning of natural products affects consumers perception of food

naturalness. In this regard, Berry, Burton, & Howlett (2017) showed that providing additional

information on the effective meaning of natural label has a positive impact on consumer utility

when consumers were not aware of the definition of natural, but not when consumers were

7
 Ideational refers to the fact that natural is better because it is morally, aesthetically superior than those which men has
influenced while instrumental refers to the fact that natural has superior attributes such as effectiveness, safety and
health benefits (Rozin et al., 2004).
                                                             24

===== PAGE 25 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

informed of the definition of natural. McFadden & Huffman (2017) found that, for US consumers,

adding independent information to the industry food perspectives of natural reduces excess

valuations of organics over naturals. Consequently, more balanced and objective understanding of

‘‘natural” foods may be increasingly willing to substitute conventional for ‘‘natural” foods.



Figure 4 – Essential factors that drive consumers’ perceptions and preferences for natural

food products: adapted from Mojet model. Sub-factors were identified from the literature

review of 25 papers on “natural”.

                                  <<Please, place here figure 4>>




Among intrinsic characteristics, we identified five sub-factors. Product healthiness is considered

the key motivation that influences consumers’ preferences towards natural food products

(Binninger, 2015). The term ‘natural’ is used as a brand representing healthiness, reliability, and

reassurance in terms of safety and security of food to consumers (Franchi, 2012). The absence of

certain negative intrinsic characteristics (e.g. additives, pollution, human manipulation) represents

a second sub-factor (Rozin, Fischler, & Shields-Argelès, 2012). Sensory attributes, such as

pleasure and other aesthetic experiences perception, also represents a third sub-factor suggesting the

role of naturalness as a bridge between health and taste (Binninger, 2015; Dubé et al., 2016). In this

regards, Dominick et al. (2017) found that respondents perceived products with “all natural” label

to have improved taste and improved nutritional value. In addition, they found that responses to “all

natural” label vary for different food categories.

However, Hemmerling, Canavari, et al. (2016) suggested the existence of an “attitude-liking gap”,

showing that consumers revealed a positive attitude toward natural food, but a negative sensory

                                                     25

===== PAGE 26 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

preference for the more natural product. According to Hauser, Jonas, & Riemann (2011) the

presence of fresh and raw ingredients represents a fourth sub-factor. This is because consumers

perceive naturalness as a multidimensional concept referring to sustainable, traditional, or organic

farming methods, presence of fresh and raw ingredients, and time for preparing and cooking food.

The degree of product processing represents a fifth sub-factor. Food processing or manipulation

decreases the perception of naturalness (Coppola & Verneau, 2010; Evans et al., 2010). This

confirms the results from Rozin (2006) who stated that “processing alone, without substantial

change, can decrease the perception of naturalness.” Abouab and Gomez (2015) showed that food

products resulting from handmade production are perceived as more natural than food products

resulting from machine-made production and that the level of humanization of the production

process positively impacts naturalness perceptions. Furthermore, Aschemann-Witzel & Grunert,

(2017) shows that attitudes towards functional foods were more favourable for food categories that

are perceived as natural versus processed.



With reference to extrinsic product characteristics, sustainability is an important sub-factor in

influencing the perception of natural food. Binninger (2015) suggested that product sustainability,

linked with environmental-friendliness and animal welfare aspects affect consumers’ preferences

for natural food products. A second sub-factor related to extrinsic product characteristics is

packaging. Indeed, Binninger (2015) stated that the naturalness of a food product is perceived by

the consumer through the packaging, with both functional signals (labels, logos, or claims) and

emotional aspects (colors, shapes, and graphics). Magnier, Schoormans, & Mugge (2016) also

found that perceived naturalness of the product is influenced also by the sustainability of the

package that explicitly or implicitly evokes the eco-friendliness of the packaging via its structure,


                                                  26

===== PAGE 27 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

graphical or iconographic elements, and informational elements. Label represents a third sub-factor.

Amos, Pentina, Hawkins, & Davis (2014) suggested that food products labeled with natural claims

are perceived to be less harmful and healthier, with superior instrumental attributes, and possessing

higher nutritional value and lower human contamination. Liu, Hooker, Parasidis, & Simons (2017)

found that the presence of an all-natural FOP label improves consumers’ perceptions of product

quality and nutritional content. Finally, Li & Chapman (2012) suggested that perceived risk

represents an important instrumental reason for naturalness preference.



Considering biological and physiological factors, women are more receptive to the indication “all

natural” on food label (Dominick, Fullerton, Widmar, & Wang, 2017) and show a greater

willingness to pay for organic-“natural” than men (McFadden & Huffman, 2017). This might be

because women are more sensitive than men to risk (Dickson-Spillmann et al., 2011).



Among psychological factors, Devcich et al. (2007) showed that consumers with a higher number

of modern health worries (i.e. drug-resistant bacteria or pesticides in food) showed a stronger

preference for foods that contain only natural ingredients. In addition, Dickson-Spillmann et al.

(2011) found that risk perceptions of chemicals in food were positively correlated with preference

for natural food.



Among situational factors, the perception of naturalness depends also on the type of stores, because

some of them convey a sense of naturalness, such as traditional markets, leading to more perceived

naturalness (Lunardo & Saintives, 2013). In addition, Liu et al. (2017) found that the additional




                                                 27

===== PAGE 28 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

information provided by employed servers at the point of purchase impacts consumers’ perceptions

of quality and nutritional content of all-natural labelled products.



4.4 Factors affecting consumers’ perceptions and preferences for food “free from artificial

   additives/ingredients”

Food additives are substances that added to food products are able to improve their intrinsic

attributes due to their technological and sensory functions (i.e. to increase shelf life by reducing

their perishability, improve taste, restore colours, etc.). This enables the food industry to produce

food products that meet the more complex and segmented consumer desires (Carocho, Morales, &

Ferreira, 2015; Emerton & Choi, 2008; Saltmarsh, 2013). Different definitions of food additives are

provided by Codex Alimentarius, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the European Food

Safety Authority (EFSA) (for details see Carocho et al., 2015). Food additives can be categorized

based on two different characteristics: their origin and function. In terms of origin there are artificial

and natural additives. In terms of function six categories can be identified: preservatives, nutritional

additives, colouring agents, flavouring agents, texturing agents and miscellaneous agents (Carocho,

Barreiro, Morales, & Ferreira, 2014).



Despite the mentioned advantages, the relationship between consumers and food additives has

always been problematic (Carocho et al., 2015). Indeed, since the late 1970s consumers started to

think that artificial additives/ingredients might be dangerous for health, and that it would be

preferable to reduce or avoid their use in food products (Brockman & Beeren, 2011). For example,

the cases of aspartame, colours, and monosodium glutamate have contributed to rising public

concerns about how addition of these substances to food products might have bad health effects


                                                   28

===== PAGE 29 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

(Carocho et al., 2014; Lofstedt, 2008, 2009; Mosby, 2009). Also the European terminology used to

identify additives on food labels (i.e. E-numbers) are perceived with suspicion by consumers due to

their unfamiliar names (Osborne, 2015). Generally, consumers will choose food without additives,

but if these are not available, then consumes will choose food containing natural additives over the

artificial ones (Carocho et al., 2014). Thus, a key element that drives some consumers to prefer food

products without artificial additives/ingredients is related to the additives’ origin, either natural or

artificial. Even if there is no clear difference between the origin of food additives in both the

scientific literature and public legislation, previous research suggests that consumers are able to

differentiate them (Stern, Haas, & Meixner, 2009; Tarnavöglyi, 2003).



A total of 16 papers about consumers’ perceptions and preferences for “free-from artificial

additives/ingredients” foods have been identified (Table A3). Five out of six factors of the Mojet

model (Köster 2009) have been identified, as reported in Figure 5.



Figure 5 –Essential factors that drive consumers’ perceptions and preferences for food “free

from artificial additives/ingredients”: adapted from Mojet model. Sub-factors were identified

from the literature review of 16 papers on “free from artificial additives/ingredients”.

                                   <<Please, place here figure 5>>




Among the socio-cultural factors we identified five sub-factors. The first sub-factor is related to

the fact that consumers who are more sensitive to negative information sources, gained by watching

and hearing media coverage (i.e. Internet) or family and friends discussions, feel more anxiety

about food additives and might tend easily to their rejection (Tanaka, Kitayama, Arai, &

                                                    29

===== PAGE 30 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

Matsushima, 2015; Wansink, Tal, & Brumberg, 2014). In addition, the role of nutrition teachers and

members of non-governmental organization can cause negative consumers perception of food

additives (Kang et al., 2017). This is linked to social acceptance. A second sub-factor is related to

education. Wu et al. (2013) stated that consumers with lower levels of education tend to be more

likely to purchase food products with additives that follow governments’ standards, because they

trust governments more, than those who have higher education levels. A third sub-factor is the lack

of awareness and trust in food regulation which is linked to the acceptance of food additives

(Bearth et al. 2014). A fourth sub-factor is related to the ethical, cultural, and ascetic concerns that

consumers might have about artificial additives/ingredients (Haen, 2014). A fifth sub-factor is the

consumers’ self-reported knowledge (Szucs, Szabo, & Bana, 2014).



The intrinsic product characteristics are also important drivers. We identified three sub-factors.

The first sub-factor is related to the type of additive that might affect consumers’ perceptions

differently (i.e. sweeteners are perceived as slightly more acceptable than colours) (Bearth et al.,

2014). A second sub-factor is the type of food associated with the ingredient (i.e. ingredients

associated with unhealthy food are less accepted by consumers) (Wansink et al. 2014). Finally,

consumers that prefer natural food products also prefer to avoid artificial additives/ingredients

(Bearth et al., 2014).



Among the extrinsic product characteristics we identified five sub-factors. First, is the knowledge

of the food product which includes the additive affects the acceptance of a food additive itself

(Bastian, Saltman, Johnson, & Wilkinson, 2015; Kubota, Sawano, & Kono, 2017). The second is

the lack of information about food additives also drives consumers into reject them because it was


                                                   30

===== PAGE 31 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

considered insufficient (Kubota et al., 2017; Shim et al., 2011). A third sub-factor is related to the

risk perception/attention to media which has a strong influence on consumers’ acceptance of food

additives (Chen, 2017). A fourth sub-factor is related to the type of symbolic information reported

on the label: using E-numbers instead of specify food additives as chemicals are perceived less

natural by consumers (Siegrist & Sütterlin, 2017). Finally, the costs/price of food products affect

consumers’ intent to purchase. Consumers that are more sensitive to price (men, younger, and low

income consumers) were more willing to accept additives due to their lower costs (Wu et al., 2013).




Among psychological factors, two sub-factors can be identified. One is related to the health

concern about the possible bad effects that artificial additives/ingredients can cause to human health

(Chen, 2017; Shim et al., 2011; Szucs et al., 2014; Varela & Fiszman, 2013), while the other is the

familiarity that consumers have with a food additive plays a key role in their acceptance/rejection,

since consumers are scared about names that they have not used (i.e. high-fructose corn syrup)

(Varela & Fiszman, 2013; Wansink et al., 2014).




Finally, among the biological and physiological factors, two sub-factors related to socio –

demographic characteristics, gender (i.e. women perceive more risk than men) (Bearth et al., 2014;

Dickson-Spillmann et al., 2011) and age (i.e. young people are less concerned than older people

about food safety) (De Jonge, Van Trijp, Jan Renes, & Frewer, 2007; Lupton, 2005) affect

consumers’ perceptions and preferences for avoiding food products with artificial

additives/ingredients.




                                                   31

===== PAGE 32 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

5. DISCUSSION

5.1 Clean label definition and consumer understanding

Across the three categories of food products pertaining to the clean label trend – organic, ‘natural’,

and ‘free from’ artificial additives/ingredients – we found all the six categories of factors

represented of the Mojet model (Köster, 2009), such as intrinsic and extrinsic product

characteristics, biological and physiological, as well as psychological, situational and socio-cultural

factors. Thus, as a first point, we can conclude that a broad diversity of drivers has been found to

influence the clean label trend, according to empirical consumer studies of the past six years.

As a second observation, we can conclude on a number of similarities across the three product

categories: it becomes apparent that the greater majority of studies identify crucial factors among

intrinsic or extrinsic product characteristics, as well as among socio-cultural factors. Thus, these

factors are either of greater importance, or have been given more focus in empirical research.

Studies for all three categories underline the importance of ‘health’ as a motivation via various

forms of factors, as e.g. healthiness of the product, health claims on the package, or health concerns

of the consumer. In addition, the factor of high prices and costs of purchase are identified for all

food categories. However, there are also differences between the factors emerging as relevant when

comparing the categories, concluded as a third point: according to the studies reviewed, intrinsic

product characteristics were found more often identified as factors impacting consumer behaviour

for natural and ‘free from’ food than for organic. Interestingly, though, sensory characteristics had

not been identified in any study on ‘free from’ food so far, but instead, biological and physical are

factors more prominent for ‘free from’ than for the other two categories. In addition, ‘sustainability’

was found as a motive impacting consumer behaviour and choice for organic and natural food, but

not for ‘free from’.


                                                   32

===== PAGE 33 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022



Overall, we conclude that while various factors across the whole range of drivers explain consumer

preference for clean label, research so far points in particular to intrinsic and extrinsic product

characteristics and the socio-cultural factors determining individual consumer characteristics, but

above all to the issue of ‘health’. In addition, the literature review finds that the structure of factors

explaining ‘free from’ differs in several points from organic and natural 8, indicating that this

category is to be regarded as different and apart from the latter two. It should be underlined, though,

that the smaller range of research studies identified for ‘free from’ might explain part of the

differences. In addition, it must be cautioned that research studies might point to certain factors, but

that other factors might be underlying the result as well, but have not been measured.



Considering these findings of the literature review on the background of the consumer behaviour

theory introduced as potentially relevant for the topic of clean label and consumer perception, it is

interesting to note that the different role of ‘free from’ food appears in line with the distinction that

theory suggests. Regarding dual processing (Kitchen et al., 2014; Petty et al., 1983), it can be said

that cues such as the fact that the product is certified organic or claims and product characteristics

hinting at naturalness might be more likely processed peripherally, leading to broad associations

about intrinsic and extrinsic product characteristics. These are more explained by consumer beliefs

than by actual knowledge, given they are credence quality characteristics in its majority. While

‘free from’ might also be a cue, it is much easier for consumers to assess the claim and, as a

consequence of the BOP information, centrally process the information, leading to more detailed

product characteristics mentioned. With regard to approach and avoidance information (Higgins,

8
 Previous works underline that often consumers consider organic as category of natural products (Hemmerling, Asioli,
et al., 2016).

                                                         33

===== PAGE 34 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

2005), we have argued and shown that avoidance underlies all three clean label food categories.

However, ‘free from’ food is a more obvious and straightforward trend of avoiding ‘something’,

and this fact appears to be mirrored in the findings setting the category apart.



Considering the findings and the definition introduced in this paper, the importance of a broad

range of factors influencing the clean label trend as well as the similarities in factors across all three

categories support that they are joined in under one common definition. Both ‘assumption/

inference’ as well as ‘inspection’ appear relevant, given both intrinsic and extrinsic product

characteristics are important factors explaining consumer choice, as well as individual

characteristics as impacted by the socio-cultural factors. However, the category of ‘free from’ might

differ from organic and natural, and it appears more likely that this category is perceived more via

inspection and thus pertaining to clean label in the strict sense.



5.2 Implications for food manufacturers and policy makers

A number of implications for food manufacturers can be derived from the findings. Firstly, food

manufacturers should expect that a diversity of factors impact the clean label trend, and thus need to

be prepared to take the diversity of these drivers into account in developing new products (Frewer

et al., 2011; Van Kleef, Van Trijp, & Luning, 2005) as well as in the communication and

positioning of the products in the market for clean label food. In particular, intrinsic and extrinsic

product characteristics and socio-cultural factors influence the trend, while less is found for or

known for the remaining factors. Secondly and not surprisingly, health emerges as a crucial issue

that is mirrored in a number of factors according to consumer research, thus, the clean label food

product trend should continue to be understood as essentially driven by health motivations and


                                                   34

===== PAGE 35 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

concerns. In consequence, product development and communication should prioritize this issue,

given consumers demand such health-related aspects in ingredients that influence the clean label

perception of a food (as e.g. colorants, Martins, Roriz, Morales, Barros, & Ferreira (2016). Thirdly,

the finding that ‘free from’ foods appear to be needed to be seen as apart from organic and natural

food implies that food manufacturers should have potential differences in the target group in mind,

depending on which category of clean label food they deal with. ‘Free from’ food products appear

to show a clearer distinction via biological and physiological factors, consumers might give less

importance to sensory characteristics, while even more to health and not necessarily much to

sustainability as a motive. However, further research is needed to explore these differences more in

detail.



For policy makers interacting with food processors, it appears important to work towards a more

homogenous understanding and application of the term of clean label. A uniform definition or even

regulation might establish a level playing field that would support the trend towards natural and

‘free from’ food in a similar way as the regulation and certification has supported the market for

organic food in the past. Health and health worries are a major driver, which entails that policy

makers need to consider how to ensure that consumers are not misled in any way, and in fact

choose healthy when using cues referring to clean label as a guidance in their choices. In particular,

policy makers should aim to support measures that allow prices for clean label to decrease, so that

all groups of consumers can afford such products, given price appears to be an issue across all

categories. Consumer understanding and acceptance of technologies yet appearing unfamiliar, but

providing consumer benefits needs to be understood and tackled (Rollin, Kennedy, & Wills, 2011).




                                                  35

===== PAGE 36 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

Overall, the clean label trend emerges driven by factors such as modern health worries and concerns

related to modern and high technology processing, perceived risk and skepticism towards certain

ingredients, processing techniques, but also lack of trust in regulations. It appears that certain

advantages of food processing for health and sustainability might likely be overlooked by

consumers (Augustin et al., 2016). Thus, both policy makers and food processers might need to

engage in consumer education about certain ingredients that might be misconceived by consumers,

in a targeted way that corresponds to consumer’s involvement level and processing of information.

In addition, they need to regain greater consumer trust in regulations and food production processes

(Frewer et al., 2011) in response to the factors underlying the clean label trend.



5.3 Future research directions

This review has brought forth many questions in need of further investigations for the under-

researched category of clean label food products. For instance, future studies should further

establish which factors drive consumer choices for certain types (i.e. sweeteners, colourants, etc.) of

‘free from’ food products, and how preferences for such food products differ across diverse

consumer groups. Findings from such studies would help food manufacturers understand the target

market and how these consumers differ from organic and natural food consumers.



Furthermore, given most studies in the literature review are from developed countries (e.g.,

European countries, among others) but there might be cultural differences that impact consumers’

perceptions and preferences in emerging and developing countries, broadening research towards

other regions of the world would be beneficial.




                                                   36

===== PAGE 37 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

Moreover, this paper focuses solely on three categories of clean label food products. Some research

focus should therefore be placed on the other product categories available in food markets such as

gluten-free products, short-list ingredients among others. Since recent evidence suggests that the

values consumers attach to a food product embedding a certain quality characteristic depends on the

presence of other characteristics depicting it (Caputo, Scarpa, & Nayga, 2017; Gao & Schroeder,

2009) more research is needed to investigate such dependence that might also exist in the context of

clean label food products that in turn will improve the knowledge around this topic. However, while

several studies have assessed consumers’ preferences and WTP for organic and/or natural products,

there is a lack of research that investigate preferences and WTP for food products ‘free from’

artificial additives/ingredients.



Furthermore, research investigating how consumers value multiple food attributes claimed as

“clean” simultaneously is needed. Results from these studies might help food companies to

formulate adequate product development practices, pricing and marketing strategies as well as

policy makers to determine the costs and benefits of various food labeling policies.



Finally, further research should be undertaken to investigate the behavioural reasons driving

consumer decision making processes for ‘free from’ food products. For instance, future research

could employ the structural equation modelling (SEM) approach to investigate the strength of the

relationships existing among the factors identified in this paper ‘free from’ food products (and also

for organic and natural products) to better understand how they concretely contribute to consumer

choice decisions. Another possible area of future research would be to establish whether the

inclusion of various psychological factors (e.g. risk preferences, time preferences, personality,


                                                  37

===== PAGE 38 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

among others) into economic models of consumer demand could improve their predictive power,

and thus help to better understand consumer decision making processes for the different categories

of clean label products. Finally, consumer valuation for the various ‘free from’ food products are

driven by the presence of both intrinsic and extrinsic product characteristics. Thus, further

experimental investigations are needed to explore how consumers value sensory aspects related to

‘free from’ food products as compared to those characterizing conventional food products by for

example using different consumer valuation methods as proposed by Asioli et al. (2017).



6. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Financial support from the European Commission through the Marie Curie Actions Intra European

Fellowship (IEF), call FP/-PEOPLE-I2012-IEF – project title ‘‘Innovative Methodologies for New

Food Product Development: combining Sensory Science and Experimental Economics –

NEFOMET”. Nofima’s authors also would like to thank the support of the Norwegian Foundation

for Research Levy on Agricultural Products through the research program “FoodSMaCK,

Spectroscopy, Modelling and Consumer Knowledge” (2017-2020). Special thanks also to the editor

Anderson de Souza Sant'Ana for suggesting the authors the writing of this review paper.



7. AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS

The authors’ contributions were as follows: Daniele Asioli was the responsible for the overall

manuscript, contributed to the introduction, design and literature review. Jessica Aschemann-Witzel

contributed to the consumer behaviour theory, clean label definition and discussion as well as the

critical review of the manuscript. Vincenzina Caputo contributed to the discussion and the critical

review of the manuscript. Azzurra Annunziata and Riccardo Vecchio contributed to the literature


                                                  38

===== PAGE 39 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

review and the critical review of the manuscript. Tormod Naes contributed to the critical review of

the manuscript. Finally, Paula Varela contributed to the design of the study and critical review of

the manuscript.




                                                 39

===== PAGE 40 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

8. REFERENCES

Aaker, J. L., & Lee, A. Y. (2001). “I” Seek Pleasures and “We” Avoid Pains: The Role of Self-

     Regulatory Goals in Information Processing and Persuasion. Journal of Consumer Research,

     28(1), 33–49.

Abouab, N., & Gomez, P. (2015). Human contact imagined during the production process increases

     food naturalness perceptions. Appetite, 91, 273–277.

Adams, D. C., & Salois, M. J. (2010). Local versus organic: A turn in consumer preferences and

     willingness-to-pay. Renewable Agriculture and Food Systems, 25(4), 331–341.

Aertsens, J., Mondelaers, K., & van Huylenbroeck, G. (2009). Differences in retail strategies on the

     emerging organic market. British Food Journal, 111(2), 138–154.

Aertsens, J., Verbeke, W., Mondelaers, K., & van Huylenbroeck, G. (2009). Personal determinants

     of organic food consumption: a review. British Food Journal, 111(10), 1140–1167.

Agovino, M., Crociata, A., Quaglione, D., Sacco, P., & Sarra, A. (2017). Good Taste Tastes Good.

     Cultural Capital as a Determinant of Organic Food Purchase by Italian Consumers: Evidence

     and Policy Implications. Ecological Economics, 141, 66–75.

Aktar, M., Sengupta, D., & Chowdhury, A. (2009). Impact of pesticides use in agriculture: their

     benefits and hazards. Interdisciplinary Toxicology, 1(2), 1–12.

Amos, C., Pentina, I., Hawkins, T. G., & Davis, N. (2014). “Natural” labeling and consumers’

     sentimental pastoral notion. Journal of Product & Brand Management, 23(4/5), 268–281.

Aschemann-Witzel, J., & Grunert, K. G. (2017). Attitude towards resveratrol as a healthy botanical

     ingredient: The role of naturalness of product and message. Food Quality and Preference, 57,

     126–135.
                                                 40

===== PAGE 41 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

Aschemann-Witzel, J., Maroscheck, N., & Hamm, U. (2013). Are organic consumers preferring or

     avoiding foods with nutrition and health claims? Food Quality and Preference, 30(1), 68–76.

Aschemann-Witzel, J., & Niebuhr Aagaard, E. M. (2014). Elaborating on the attitude–behaviour

     gap regarding organic products: young Danish consumers and in-store food choice.

     International Journal of Consumer Studies, 38(5), 550–558.

Aschemann-Witzel, J., & Zielke, S. (2017). Can’t Buy Me Green? A Review of Consumer

     Perceptions of and Behavior Toward the Price of Organic Food. Journal of Consumer Affairs,

     51(1), 211–251.

Aschemann, J., Hamm, U., Naspetti, S., & Zanoli, R. (2007). The organic market. In W. Lockeretz

     (Ed.), Organic farming – an international history. (pp. 123–151). Oxfordshire/UK and

     Cambridge/MA/USA: CAB International.

Asioli, D., Canavari, M., Pignatti, E., Obermowe, T., Sidali, K. L., Vogt, C., & Spiller, A. (2014).

     Sensory Experiences and Expectations of Italian and German Organic Consumers. Journal of

     International Food & Agribusiness Marketing, 26(1), 13–27.

Asioli, D., Varela, P., Hersleth, M., Almli, V. L., Olsen, N. V., & Næs, T. (2017). A discussion of

     recent methodologies for combining sensory and extrinsic product properties in consumer

     studies. Food Quality and Preference, 56, Part B, 266–273.

Augustin, M. A., Riley, M., Stockmann, R., Bennett, L., Kahl, A., Lockett, T., … Cobiac, L.

     (2016). Role of food processing in food and nutrition security. Trends in Food Science &

     Technology, 56, 115–125.

Bánáti, D. (2011). Consumer response to food scandals and scares. Trends in Food Science &

     Technology, 22(2–3), 56–60.

                                                  41

===== PAGE 42 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

Bastian, S., Saltman, Y., Johnson, T., & Wilkinson, K. (2015). Australian wine consumers’

     acceptance of and attitudes toward the use of additives in wine and food production.

     International Journal of Wine Research, Volume 7, 83.

Bearth, A., Cousin, M. E., & Siegrist, M. (2014). The consumer’s perception of artificial food

     additives: Influences on acceptance, risk and benefit perceptions. Food Quality and

     Preference, 38:14-23.

Beck, U. (1992). Risk society: towards a new modernity. London, UK: Sage Publications Ltd.

Beharrell, B., & Denison, T. J. (1995). Involvement in a routine food shopping context. British

     Food Journal, 97(4), 24–29.

Bernard, J. C., & Liu, Y. (2017). Are beliefs stronger than taste? A field experiment on organic and

     local apples. Food Quality and Preference, 61, 55–62.

Berry, C., Burton, S., & Howlett, E. (2017). It’s only natural: the mediating impact of consumers’

     attribute inferences on the relationships between product claims, perceived product

     healthfulness, and purchase intentions. Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science.

Bi, X., Gao, Z., House, L. A., & Hausmann, D. S. (2015). Tradeoffs between sensory attributes and

     organic labels: the case of orange juice. International Journal of Consumer Studies, 39(2),

     162–171.

Binninger, A.-S. (2015). Perception of Naturalness of Food Packaging and Its Role in Consumer

     Product Evaluation. Journal of Food Products Marketing, 1–17.

Bravo, C. P., Cordts, A., Schulze, B., & Spiller, A. (2013). Assessing determinants of organic food

     consumption using data from the German National Nutrition Survey {II}. Food Quality and

     Preference, 28(1), 60–70.

                                                 42

===== PAGE 43 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

Brockman, C., & Beeren, C. J. M. (2011). Additives in Dairy Foods | Consumer Perceptions of

     Additives in Dairy Products. In J. W. Fuquay (Ed.), Encyclopedia of Dairy Sciences (Second

     Edition) (2nd ed., pp. 41–48). San Diego: Academic Press.

Brunsø, K., & Grunert, K. G. (1995). Development and testing of a cross-culturally valid

     instrument: Food-related lifestyle. Advances in Consumer Research, 22, 475–480.

Bruschi, V., Shershneva, K., Dolgopolova, I., Canavari, M., & Teuber, R. (2015). Consumer

     Perception of Organic Food in Emerging Markets: Evidence from Saint Petersburg, Russia.

     Agribusiness, 31(3), 414–432.

Bryła, P. (2016). Organic food consumption in Poland: Motives and barriers. Appetite, 105, 737–

     746.

Busken, D. F. (2013). Cleaning It Up—What Is a Clean Label Ingredient? Cereals Foods Worlds,

     60(2), 112–113.

Caputo, V., Nayga, R. M., & Scarpa, R. (2013). Food miles or carbon emissions? Exploring

     labelling preference for food transport footprint with a stated choice study. Australian Journal

     of Agricultural and Resource Economics, 57(4), 465–482.

Caputo, V., Scarpa, R., & Nayga, R. M. J. (2017). Cue versus independent food attributes: the

     effect of adding attributes in choice experiments. European Review of Agricultural Economics,

     44(2), 211–230.

Carocho, M., Barreiro, M. F., Morales, P., & Ferreira, I. C. F. R. (2014). Adding molecules to food,

     pros and cons: A review on synthetic and natural food additives. Comprehensive Reviews in

     Food Science and Food Safety, 13(4):377-399.

Carocho, M., Morales, P., & Ferreira, I. C. F. R. (2015). Natural food additives: Quo vadis? Trends

                                                 43

===== PAGE 44 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

     in Food Science & Technology, 45, 284–295.

Carrington, M. J., Neville, B. A., & Whitwell, G. J. (2010). Why Ethical Consumers Don’t Walk

     Their Talk: Towards a Framework for Understanding the Gap Between the Ethical Purchase

     Intentions and Actual Buying Behaviour of Ethically Minded Consumers. Journal of Business

     Ethics, 97(1), 139–158.

Chalamon, I., & Nabec, L. (2016). Why Do We Read On-Pack Nutrition Information so

     Differently? A Typology of Reading Heuristics Based on Food Consumption Goals. Journal of

     Consumer Affairs, 50(2), 403–429.

Chen, M.-F. (2017). Modeling an extended theory of planned behavior model to predict intention to

     take precautions to avoid consuming food with additives. Food Quality and Preference, 58,

     24–33.

Cheung, T. T. L., Junghans, A. F., Dijksterhuis, G. B., Kroese, F., Johansson, P., Hall, L., & Ridder,

     D. T. D. De. (2016). Consumers’ choice-blindness to ingredient information. Appetite, 106:2-

     12.

Coppola, A., & Verneau, F. (2010). Naturalness and Consumer Choices: The Case of Microfiltered

     Milk. In Proceedings of the 4th International European Forum on System Dynamics and

     Innovation in Food Networks (pp. 187–201). Innsbruck, Austria.

Das, G. (2015). Retail shopping behaviour: understanding the role of regulatory focus theory. The

     International Review of Retail, Distribution and Consumer Research, 25(4), 431–445.

de Boer, J., & Schösler, H. (2016). Food and value motivation: Linking consumer affinities to

     different types of food products. Appetite, 103, 95–104.

De Jonge, J., Van Trijp, H., Jan Renes, R., & Frewer, L. (2007). Understanding Consumer

                                                 44

===== PAGE 45 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

    Confidence in the Safety of Food: Its Two-Dimensional Structure and Determinants. Risk

    Analysis, 27(3), 729–740.

De Magistris, T., & Gracia, A. (2016). Consumers’ willingness-to-pay for sustainable food

    products: the case of organically and locally grown almonds in Spain. Journal of Cleaner

    Production, 118, 97–104.

Devcich, D. A., Pedersen, I. K., & Petrie, K. J. (2007). You eat what you are: Modern health

    worries and the acceptance of natural and synthetic additives in functional foods. Appetite,

    48(3), 333–337.

Dholakia, U. M., Kahn, B. E., Reeves, R., Rindfleisch, A., Stewart, D., & Taylor, E. (2010).

    Consumer Behavior in a Multichannel, Multimedia Retailing Environment. Journal of

    Interactive Marketing, 24(2), 86–95.

Dickson-Spillmann, M., Siegrist, M., & Keller, C. (2011). Attitudes toward chemicals are

    associated with preference for natural food. Food Quality and Preference, 22(1), 149–156.

Dimitri, C., & Dettmann, R. L. (2012). Organic food consumers: what do we really know about

    them? British Food Journal, 114(8), 1157–1183.

Dominick, S. R., Fullerton, C., Widmar, N. J. O., & Wang, H. (2017). Consumer Associations with

    the “All Natural” Food Label. Journal of Food Products Marketing, 1–14.

Draper, A. K., Adamson, A. J., Clegg, S., Malam, S., Rigg, M., & Duncan, S. (2013). Front-of-pack

    nutrition labelling: are multiple formats a problem for consumers? The European Journal of

    Public Health, 23(3), 517–521.

Drexler, D., Fiala, J., Havlíčková, A., Potůčková, A., & Souček, M. (2017). The Effect of Organic

    Food Labels on Consumer Attention. Journal of Food Products Marketing, 1–15.

                                                45

===== PAGE 46 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

Dubé, L., Fatemi, H., Lu, J., & Hertzer, C. (2016). The Healthier the Tastier? USA–India

     Comparison Studies on Consumer Perception of a Nutritious Agricultural Product at Different

     Food Processing Levels. Frontiers in Public Health, 4(6), 1–11.

Dumortier, J., Evans, K. S., Grebitus, C., & Martin, P. A. (2017). The Influence of Trust and

     Attitudes on the Purchase Frequency of Organic Produce. Journal of International Food &

     Agribusiness Marketing, 29(1), 46–69.

Edwards, A. (2013). Natural & Clean Label Trends June 2013. Ingredion Incorporated.

Eertmans, A., Victoir, A., Vansant, G., & den Bergh, O. Van. (2005). Food-related personality

     traits, food choice motives and food intake: Mediator and moderator relationships. Food

     Quality and Preference, 16(8), 714–726.

Ellison, B., Duff, B. R. L., Wang, Z., & White, T. B. (2016). Putting the organic label in context:

     Examining the interactions between the organic label, product type, and retail outlet. Food

     Quality and Preference, 49, 140–150.

Emerton, V., & Choi, E. (2008). Essential Guide to Food Additives. (Leatherhead Food

     International, Ed.). The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Euromonitor International. (2016). Report extract: lifestyle 2016: new survey insights and system

     refresher.

Evans, J. S. B. T. (2003). In two minds: dual-process accounts of reasoning. Trends in Cognitive

     Sciences, 7(10), 454–459.

Evans, de Challemaison, B., & Cox, D. N. (2010). Consumers’ ratings of the natural and unnatural

     qualities of foods. Appetite, 54(3), 557–563.

Fellows, P. (2004). Processed foods for improved livelihoods. FAO Diversification Booklet (FAO).
                                                 46

===== PAGE 47 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

FIBL. (2017). The World of Organic Agriculture. (H. Willer & J. Lernoud, Eds.). Frick,

     Switzerland.

Franchi, M. (2012). Food choice: beyond the chemical content. International Journal of Food

     Sciences and Nutrition, 63(sup1), 17–28.

Frewer, L. J., Bergmann, K., Brennan, M., Lion, R., Meertens, R., Rowe, G., … Vereijken, C.

     (2011). Consumer response to novel agri-food technologies: Implications for predicting

     consumer acceptance of emerging food technologies. Trends in Food Science & Technology,

     22(8), 442–456.

Frewer, L. J., & van Trijp, H. (2007). Understanding Consumers of Food Products. Cambridge,

     UK: Woodhead Publishing, CRC Press.

Gao, Z., & Schroeder, T. C. (2009). Effects of Label Information on Consumer Willingness-to-Pay

     for Food Attributes. American Journal of Agricultural Economics, 91(3), 795–809. Gelski, J.

     (2016). Consumers not clear on clean label definition. Food Business News. Retrieved from

     http://www.foodbusinessnews.net/articles/news_home/Consumer_Trends/2016/02/Consumers

     _not_clear_on_clean_l.aspx?ID=%7B7B7BE175-2049-4403-B1D9-

     A1CB8F76CFBB%7D&cck=1

Gilles Laurent, J.-N. K. (1985). Measuring Consumer Involvement Profiles. Journal of Marketing

     Research, 22(1), 41–53.

Gineikiene, J., Kiudyte, J., & Degutis, M. (2017). Functional, organic or conventional? Food

     choices of health conscious and skeptical consumers. Baltic Journal of Management, 12(2),

     139–152.

Godfray, H. C. J., Beddington, J. R., Crute, I. R., Haddad, L., Lawrence, D., Muir, J. F., …

                                                 47

===== PAGE 48 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

    Toulmin, C. (2010). Food Security: The Challenge of Feeding 9 Billion People. Science,

    327(5967), 812–818.

Grunert, K. G. (2013). Trends in food choice and nutrition. In M. Klopčič, A. Kuipers, & J.-F.

    Hocquette (Eds.), Consumer attitudes to food quality products: Emphasis on Southern Europe

    (pp. 23–30). Wageningen: Wageningen Academic Publishers.

Grunert, K. G., Bredahl, L., & Scholderer, J. (2003). Four questions on European consumers’

    attitudes toward the use of genetic modification in food production. Innovative Food Science

    & Emerging Technologies, 4(4), 435–445.

Grzybowska-Brzezinska, M., Grzywinska-Rapca, M., Zuchowski, I., & Borawski, P. (2017).

    Organic Food Attributes Determing Consumer Choices. European Research Studies Journal,

    0(2A), 164–176.

Haen, D. (2014). The Paradox of E-Numbers: Ethical, Aesthetic, and Cultural Concerns in the

    Dutch Discourse on Food Additives. Journal of Agricultural and Environmental Ethics, 27(1),

    27–42.

Hasimu, H., Marchesini, S., & Canavari, M. (2017). A concept mapping study on organic food

    consumers in Shanghai, China. Appetite, 108, 191–202.

Hauser, M., Jonas, K., & Riemann, R. (2011). Measuring salient food attitudes and food-related

    values. An elaborated, conflicting and interdependent system. Appetite, 57(2), 329–338.

Hemmerling, S., Asioli, D., & Spiller, A. (2016). Core Organic Taste: Preferences for Naturalness-

    Related Sensory Attributes of Organic Food Among European Consumers. Journal of Food

    Products Marketing, 22(7), 824–850.

Hemmerling, S., Canavari, M., & Spiller, A. (2016). Preference for naturalness of European organic

                                                48

===== PAGE 49 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

    consumers. British Food Journal, 118(9), 2287–2307.

Hemmerling, S., Hamm, U., & Spiller, A. (2015). Consumption behaviour regarding organic food

    from a marketing perspective—a literature review. Organic Agriculture, 5(4), 277–313.

Hemmerling, S., Obermowe, T., Canavari, M., Sidali, K. L., Stolz, H., & Spiller, A. (2013).

    Organic food labels as a signal of sensory quality---insights from a cross-cultural consumer

    survey. Organic Agriculture, 3(1), 57–69.

Higgins, T. E. (2005). Value From Regulatory Fit. Current Directions in Psychological Science, 14,

    209–213.

Hoyer, W. D. (1984). An Examination of Consumer Decision Making for a Common Repeat

    Purchase Product. Journal of Consumer Research, 11(3), 822–829.

Husic-Mehmedovic, M., Arslanagic-Kalajdzic, M., Kadic-Maglajlic, S., & Vajnberger, Z. (2017).

    Live, Eat, Love: life equilibrium as a driver of organic food purchase. British Food Journal,

    119(7), 1410–1422.

IFOAM. (2015). Into the future. Consolidated Annual Report.

    http://www.ifoam.bio/sites/default/files/annual_report_2015_0.pdf

Ingredion. (2014). The clean label guide in Europe. Retrieved from

    http://www.alimentatec.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/10/The-Clean-Label-Guide-To-

    Europe.pdf

Janssen, M., & Hamm, U. (2012a). Product labelling in the market for organic food: Consumer

    preferences and willingness-to-pay for different organic certification logos. Food Quality and

    Preference, 25(1), 9–22.

Janssen, M., & Hamm, U. (2012b). The mandatory EU logo for organic food: consumer
                                                49

===== PAGE 50 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

     perceptions. British Food Journal, 114(3), 335–352.

Joppen, L. (2006). Taking out the chemistry. Food Engineering & Ingredients, 31(2), 38.

Kang, H.-J., Kim, S., Lee, G., Lim, H. S., Yun, S. S., & Kim, J.-W. (2017). Perception Gaps on

     Food Additives among Various Groups in Korea: Food Experts, Teachers, Nutrition Teachers,

     Nongovernmental Organization Members, and General Consumers. Journal of Food

     Protection, 80(6), 1015–1021.

Katz, B., & Williams, L. A. (2011). Cleaning up processed foods. Food Technology, 65(12), 33.

Kearney, J. (2010). Food consumption trends and drivers. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal

     Society B: Biological Sciences, 365(1554), 2793–2807.

Kitchen, J. P., Kerr, G., Schultz, D., McColl, R., & Pals, H. (2014). The elaboration likelihood

     model: review, critique and research agenda. European Journal of Marketing, 48(11/12),

     2033–2050.

Knowles, T., Moody, R., & McEachern, M. G. (2007). European food scares and their impact on

     EU food policy. British Food Journal, 109(1), 43–67.

Knowx, S., & Walker, D. (2003). Empirical developments in the measurement of involvement,

     brand loyalty and their relationship in grocery markets. Journal of Strategic Marketing, 11(4),

     271–286.

Köster, E. P. (2009). Diversity in the determinants of food choice: A psychological perspective.

     Food Quality and Preference, 20(2), 70–82.

Kriwy, P., & Mecking, R.-A. (2012). Health and environmental consciousness, costs of behaviour

     and the purchase of organic food. International Journal of Consumer Studies, 36(1), 30–37.

Krovetz, H. (2016). The Effect of Water-Use Labeling and Information on Consumer Valuation for
                                               50

===== PAGE 51 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

     WaterSustainable Food Choices in California. University of California at Berkeley, Berkeley,

     California.

Kubota, S., Sawano, H., & Kono, H. (2017). Japanese consumer preferences for additive-free wine

     labeling. Agricultural and Food Economics, 5(1), 4.

Lachat, C., Nago, E., Verstraeten, R., Roberfroid, D., Van Camp, J., & Kolsteren, P. (2012). Eating

     out of home and its association with dietary intake: a systematic review of the evidence.

     Obesity Reviews : An Official Journal of the International Association for the Study of Obesity,

     13(4), 329–46.

Lee, W. J., Shimizu, M., Kniffin, K. M., & Wansink, B. (2013). You taste what you see: Do organic

     labels bias taste perceptions? Food Quality and Preference, 29(1), 33–39.

Li, M., & Chapman, G. B. (2012). Why Do People Like Natural? Instrumental and Ideational Bases

     for the Naturalness Preference. Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 42(12), 2859–2878.

Liang, R.-D. (2016). Predicting intentions to purchase organic food: the moderating effects of

     organic food prices. British Food Journal, 118(1), 183–199.

Liu, R., Hooker, N. H., Parasidis, E., & Simons, C. T. (2017). A Natural Experiment: Using

     Immersive Technologies to Study the Impact of “All-Natural” Labeling on Perceived Food

     Quality, Nutritional Content, and Liking. Journal of Food Science, 82(3), 825–833.

Lofstedt, R. E. (2008). Risk Communication, Media Amplification and the Aspartame Scare. Risk

     Management, 10(4), 257–284.

Lofstedt, R. E. (2009). Risk communication and the FSA: the food colourings case. Journal of Risk

     Research, 12(5), 537–557.

Lucová, M., Hojerová, J., Pažoureková, S., & Klimová, Z. (2013). Absorption of triphenylmethane
                                                 51

===== PAGE 52 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

     dyes Brilliant Blue and Patent Blue through intact skin, shaven skin and lingual mucosa from

     daily life products. Food and Chemical Toxicology, 52, 19–27.

Lunardo, R., & Saintives, C. (2013). The effect of naturalness claims on perceptions of food

     product naturalness in the point of purchase. Journal of Retailing and Consumer Services,

     20(6), 529–537.

Lupton, D. A. (2005). Lay discourses and beliefs related to food risks: an Australian perspective.

     Sociology of Health & Illness, 27(4), 448–467.

Lusk, J. L. (2016). Unnaturally Delicious: How Science and Technology are Serving Up Super

     Foods to Save the World. New York: St. Martin’s Press.

MacFie, H. J. H. (2007). Consumer-Led Food Product Development. (MacFie H, Ed.). Cambridge:

     Woodhead Publishing Limitated.

Magnier, L., Schoormans, J., & Mugge, R. (2016). Judging a product by its cover: Packaging

     sustainability and perceptions of quality in food products. Food Quality and Preference, 53,

     132–142.

Marian, L., Chrysochou, P., Krystallis, A., & Thøgersen, J. (2014). The role of price as a product

     attribute in the organic food context: An exploration based on actual purchase data. Food

     Quality and Preference, 37, 52–60.

Martins, N., Roriz, C. L., Morales, P., Barros, L., & Ferreira, I. C. F. R. (2016). Food colorants:

     Challenges, opportunities and current desires of agro-industries to ensure consumer

     expectations and regulatory practices. Trends in Food Science & Technology, 52, 1–15.

McFadden, J. R., & Huffman, W. E. (2017). Willingness-to-pay for natural, organic, and

     conventional foods: The effects of information and meaningful labels. Food Policy, 68, 214–

                                                  52

===== PAGE 53 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

    232.

Meneses, Y., Cannon, K. J., & Flores, R. A. (2014). Keys to understanding and addressing

    consumer perceptions and concerns about processed foods. Cereals Foods Worlds, 59(3), 141–

    146.

Mick, D. G., Broniarczyk, S. M., & Haidt, J. (2004). Choose, Choose, Choose, Choose, Choose,

    Choose, Choose: Emerging and Prospective Research on the Deleterious Effects of Living in

    Consumer Hyperchoice. Journal of Business Ethics, 52(2), 207–211.

Mintel. (2015). Mintel serves up 5 key food and drink trends for 2015.

Mørk, T., Bech-Larsen, T., Grunert, K. G., & Tsalis, G. (2017). Determinants of citizen acceptance

    of environmental policy regulating consumption in public settings: Organic food in public

    institutions. Journal of Cleaner Production, 148, 407–414.

Mosby, I. (2009). “That Won-Ton Soup Headache”: The Chinese Restaurant Syndrome, MSG and

    the Making of American Food, 1968-1980. Social History of Medicine, 22(1), 133–151.

Moskowitz, H. R., Beckley, J. H., & Resurreccion, A. V. A. (2012). So What are the Practical

    Considerations in Actually Running a Test? What do I need to know? What does the Rest of

    the Company Need to Know? In Sensory and Consumer Research in Food Product Design

    and Development (pp. 321–363). Wiley-Blackwell.

Nuttavuthisit, K., & Thøgersen, J. (2017). The Importance of Consumer Trust for the Emergence of

    a Market for Green Products: The Case of Organic Food. Journal of Business Ethics, 140(2),

    323–337.

Osborne, S. (2015). Labelling relating to natural ingredients and additives. Advances in Food and

    Beverage Labelling: Information and Regulations, 207–221.

                                                53

===== PAGE 54 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

Pagliarini, E., Laureati, M., & Gaeta, D. (2013). Sensory descriptors, hedonic perception and

     consumer’s attitudes to Sangiovese red wine deriving from organically and conventionally

     grown grapes. Frontiers in Psychology, 4, 896.

Paul, J., & Rana, J. (2012). Consumer behavior and purchase intention for organic food. Journal of

     Consumer Marketing, 29(6), 412–422.

Petrescu, D. C., Petrescu-Mag, R. M., Burny, P., & Azadi, H. (2017). A new wave in Romania:

     organic food. Consumers’ motivations, perceptions, and habits. Agroecology and Sustainable

     Food Systems, 41(1), 46–75.

Petty, R. E., Cacioppo, J. T., & Schumann, D. (1983). Central and Peripheral Routes to Advertising

     Effectiveness: The Moderating Role of Involvement. Journal of Consumer Research, 10, 135–

     146.

Pino, G., Peluso, A. M., & Guido, G. (2012). Determinants of Regular and Occasional Consumers’

     Intentions to Buy Organic Food. Journal of Consumer Affairs, 46(1), 157–169.

Pollan, M. (2008). In defence of food. An eaters’ manifesto. The Penguin Press.

Princen, T. (1997). The shading and distancing of commerce: When internalization is not enough.

     Ecological Economics, 20(3), 235–253. Rahnama, H. (2017). Effect of Consumption Values

     on Women’s Choice Behavior Toward Organic Foods: The Case of Organic Yogurt in Iran.

     Journal of Food Products Marketing, 23(2), 144–166.

Rödiger, M., & Hamm, U. (2015). How are organic food prices affecting consumer behaviour? A

     review. Food Quality and Preference, 43, 10–20.

Rollin, F., Kennedy, J., & Wills, J. (2011). Consumers and new food technologies. In New

     challenges in food preservation.Processing – Safety – Sustainability EFFoST 2009 Annual

                                                54

===== PAGE 55 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

     Meeting, (pp. 99–111).

Rozin, P. (2006). Naturalness judgments by lay Americans: Process dominates content in

     judgments of food or water acceptability and naturalness. Judgment and Decision Making,

     1(2), 91–97.

Rozin, P., Fischler, C., & Shields-Argelès, C. (2012a). European and American perspectives on the

     meaning of natural. Appetite, 59(2), 448–455.

Rozin, P., Spranca, M., Krieger, Z., Neuhaus, R., Surillo, D., Swerdlin, A., & Wood, K. (2004).

     Preference for natural: instrumental and ideational/moral motivations, and the contrast

     between foods and medicines. Appetite, 43(2), 147–154.

Saltmarsh, M. (2013). Essential guide to food additives (4th ed.). Cambridge, UK: RSC: Publishing.

Samant, S. S., & Seo, H.-S. (2016). Quality perception and acceptability of chicken breast meat

     labeled with sustainability claims vary as a function of consumers’ label-understanding level.

     Food Quality and Preference, 49, 151–160.

Schiffman, L. G., & Wisenblit, J. L. (2015). Consumer behavior. (Pearson, Ed.) (11th ed.). Boston,

     MA.

Schleenbecker, R., & Hamm, U. (2013). Consumers’ perception of organic product characteristics.

     A review. Appetite, 71, 420–429.

Schroeder, J. (2016). Study finds consumers don’t understand ‘clean labels.”. Food Safety Quality

     & Safety. http://www.foodqualityandsafety.com/article/15947/

Schuldt, J. P., & Hannahan, M. (2013). When good deeds leave a bad taste. Negative inferences

     from ethical food claims. Appetite, 62, 76–83.

Shashi, Kottala, S. Y., & Singh, R. (2015). A review of sustainability, deterrents, personal values,
                                                 55

===== PAGE 56 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

     attitudes and purchase intentions in the organic food supply chain. Pacific Science Review B:

     Humanities and Social Sciences, 1(3), 114–123.

Shim, S. M., Seo, S. H., Lee, Y., Moon, G. I., Kim, M. S., & Park, J. H. (2011). Consumers’

     knowledge and safety perceptions of food additives: Evaluation on the effectiveness of

     transmitting information on preservatives. Food Control, 22(7), 1054–1060.

Siegrist, M., & Sütterlin, B. (2017). Importance of perceived naturalness for acceptance of food

     additives and cultured meat. Appetite, 113, 320–326.

Siipi, H. (2013). Is Natural Food Healthy? Journal of Agricultural and Environmental Ethics, 26(4),

     797–812.

Silva, A. R. de A., Bioto, A. S., Efraim, P., & Queiroz, G. de C. (2017). Impact of sustainability

     labeling in the perception of sensory quality and purchase intention of chocolate consumers.

     Journal of Cleaner Production, 141, 11–21.

Sloan, A. E. (1999). Top ten trends to watch and work on for the millennium. Food Technology,

     53(80), 40–60.

Stern, T., Haas, R., & Meixner, O. (2009). Consumer acceptance of wood‐based food additives.

     British Food Journal, 111(2), 179–195.

Swientik, B. (2017). Clean label. Retrieved from http://www.ift.org/General Search.aspx?s=Food

     Technology&k=%22clean label%22#q=%22clean

     label%22&sort=relevancy&f:@fiftscope90933subl_coveofacets_0=[Food

     Technology]&f:@fiftyear90933subl_coveofacets_3=[2016,2015,2014,2013,2012,2011,2010,2

     009,2008,2007,200

Szucs, V., Szabo, E., & Bana. (2014). Factors affecting the avoidance of food additives in Hungary.

                                                 56

===== PAGE 57 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

    Journal of Hygienic Engineering and Design, 8, 61–66.

Tanaka, Y., Kitayama, M., Arai, S., & Matsushima, Y. (2015). Major psychological factors

    affecting consumer’s acceptance of food additives: Validity of a new psychological model.

    British Food Journal, 117(11), 2788–2800.

Tarnavöglyi, G. (2003). Analysis of Consumers´ Attitudes Towards Food Additives Using Focus

    Group Survey. Agriculturae Conspectus Scientificus, 68(3), 193–196.

Thøgersen, J. (2017). Sustainable food consumption in the nexus between national context and

    private lifestyle: A multi-level study. Food Quality and Preference, 55, 16–25.

Thøgersen, J., de Barcellos, M. D., Perin, M. G., & Zhou, Y. (2015). Consumer buying motives and

    attitudes towards organic food in two emerging markets: China and Brazil. International

    Marketing Review, 32(3/4), 389–413.

Thompson, D. B. (2011). Natural Food and the Pastoral: A Sentimental Notion? Journal of

    Agricultural and Environmental Ethics, 24(2), 165–194.

van Kleef, E., van Trijp, H. C. M., & Luning, P. (2005). Functional foods: health claim-food

    product compatibility and the impact of health claim framing on consumer evaluation.

    Appetite, 44(3), 299–308.

Van Kleef, E., Van Trijp, H. C. M., & Luning, P. (2005). Consumer research in the early stages of

    new product development: a critical review of methods and techniques. Food Quality and

    Preference, 16(3), 181–201.

Van Loo, E., Caputo, V., Jr., R. M. N., Seo, H.-S., Zhang, B., & Verbeke, W. (2015). Sustainability

    labels on coffee: Consumer preferences, willingness-to-pay and visual attention to attributes.

    Ecological Economics, 118, 215–225.

                                                57

===== PAGE 58 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

Van Loo, E., Caputo, V., Nayga, R., & Verbeke, W. (2014). Consumers’ valuation of sustainability

    labels on meat. Food Policy, 49, Part 1, 137–150.

Van Loo, E. J., Caputo, V., Nayga, R. M., Meullenet, J.-F., & Ricke, S. C. (2011). Consumers’

    willingness to pay for organic chicken breast: Evidence from choice experiment. Food Quality

    and Preference, 22(7), 603–613.

Van Loo, Diem, M. N. H., Pieniak, Z., & Verbeke, W. (2013). Consumer attitudes, knowledge, and

    consumption of organic yogurt. Journal of Dairy Science, 96(4), 2118–2129.

Varela, P., & Fiszman, S. M. (2013). Exploring consumers’ knowledge and perceptions of

    hydrocolloids used as food additives and ingredients. Food Hydrocolloids, 30(1), 477–484.

Vecchio, R., & Annunziata, A. (2015). Willingness-to-pay for sustainability-labelled chocolate: an

    experimental auction approach. Journal of Cleaner Production, 86, 335–342.

Vecchio, R., Annunziata, A., Krystallis, A., & Pomarici, E. (2015). Consumers’ literacy and

    preferences for sustainability labels: an exploratory analysis on Italian young adults.

    International Journal of Globalisation and Small Business, 7(3–4), 221–233.

Vecchio, R., Van Loo, E. J., & Annunziata, A. (2016). Consumers’ willingness to pay for

    conventional, organic and functional yogurt: evidence from experimental auctions.

    International Journal of Consumer Studies, 40(3), 368–378.

Vlaeminck, P., Jiang, T., & Vranken, L. (2014). Food labeling and eco-friendly consumption:

    Experimental evidence from a Belgian supermarket. Ecological Economics, 108, 180–190.

Wansink, B., Tal, A., & Brumberg, A. (2014). Ingredient-based food fears and avoidance:

    Antecedents and antidotes. Food Quality and Preference, 38, 40–48.

Weaver, C. M., Dwyer, J., Fulgoni, V. L., King, J. C., Leveille, G. A., MacDonald, R. S., …
                                                 58

===== PAGE 59 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

     Schnakenberg, D. (2014). Processed foods: contributions to nutrition. The American Journal of

     Clinical Nutrition, 99(6), 1525–42.

Weis, T. (2007). The Global Food Economy: The Battle for the Future of Farming. Canada:

     Fernowood Publishing.

Wu, L., Zhong, Y., Shan, L., & Qin, W. (2013). Public risk perception of food additives and food

     scares. The case in Suzhou, China. Appetite, 70, 90–98.

Zagata, L. (2012). Consumers’ beliefs and behavioural intentions towards organic food. Evidence

     from the Czech Republic. Appetite, 59(1), 81–89.

Zander, K. (2014). A Green Leaf!? Consumers’ Knowledge and Perception of the Mandatory EU

     Organic Logo. In Proceedings of the 4th International European Forum on System Dynamics

     and Innovation in Food Networks (pp. 220–228). Innsbruck, Austria.

Zander, K., Padel, S., & Zanoli, R. (2015). EU organic logo and its perception by consumers.

     British Food Journal, 117(5), 1506–1526.

Zanoli, R., Scarpa, R., Napolitano, F., Piasentier, E., Naspetti, S., & Bruschi, V. (2013). Organic

     label as an identifier of environmentally related quality: A consumer choice experiment on

     beef in Italy. Renewable Agriculture and Food Systems, 28(1), 70–79.

Zink, D. L. (1997). The impact of consumer demands and trends on food processing. Emerging

     Infectious Diseases, 3(4), 467–469.




                                                  59

===== PAGE 60 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022




APPENDIX A:




Table A.1 – Selected papers concerning the factors that drive consumers’ perceptions and

preferences for organic labeled food products.

                               <<Please, place here Table A.1>>


Table A.2 – Selected papers concerning the factors that drive consumers’ perceptions and

preferences for natural food products.

                               <<Please, place here Table A.2>>




                                               60

===== PAGE 61 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

Table A.3 – Selected papers concerning the factors that drive consumers’ perceptions and

preferences for food “free from artificial additives/ingredients”.

                               <<Please, place here Table A.3>>




                                               61

===== PAGE 62 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

Figure 1 – A proposed definition and concept of ‘clean label’




    ‘Clean label’ in a broad sense:                                  ‘Clean label’ in a strict sense:
    front of pack (FOP) textual or visual claims,                    back of pack (BOP) ingredient list and
    certification logos, simple FOP labels,                          nutrition facts panel, characterized by being
    categories natural and organic, ‘free-from’                      short, simple, no artificial ingredients, not
    (e.g. preservatives / additives)                                 ‘chemical-sounding’, with ‘kitchen cupboard
                                                                     ingredients’ that are expected and familiar

    => ‘Clean label’ (product) expected to be                        => ‘Clean label’ (that is: ingredient
    ‘clean’ by assumption and through inference                      information) found ‘clean’ on inspection



                                                             More likely central route processing of information

    More likely peripheral route processing of information




                                                             62

===== PAGE 63 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022




                                               63

===== PAGE 64 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022




                                               64

===== PAGE 65 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022




                                               65

===== PAGE 66 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022




                                               66

===== PAGE 67 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

Table A.1 – Selected papers concerning the factors that drive consumers’ perceptions and

preferences for organic labeled food products.

N°           AUTHORS               YEAR   COUNTRY                           MAIN FINDINGS

1    Aertsens, J., Verbeke, W.,    2009       n.a.*        Organic food consumption decisions can be

     Mondelaers, K., & Van                                 explained by relating attributes of organic food

     Huylenbroeck, G.                                      products with more abstract values such as security,

                                                           universalism,     benevolence,        stimulation,   self-

                                                           direction and conformity.

2.   Agovino, M., Crociata, A.,    2017       Italy        Participation in cultural activities has a positive

     Quaglione, D., Sacco, P., &                           impact on the tendency to purchase organic food

     Sarra, A.                                             products, to an extent that depends on the social

                                                           orientation of cultural activities.

3.   Asioli, D., Canavari, M.,     2014       Italy        Flavor and odor are the most important attributes in

     Pignatti, E., Obermowe, T.,           Germany         driving organic consumers' preferences.

     Sidali, K. L., Vogt, C., &

     Spiller, A.

4.   Aschemann-Witzel, J.,         2013    Germany         Occasional organic buyers prefer organic food with

     Maroscheck, N., & Hamm,                               health claims.

     U.

5.   Aschemann‐W itzel, J. and     2014    Denmark         Price represents a core barrier for young consumers

     Niebuhr Aagaard, E. M.                                for organic food purchases, but only temporary.

                                                           This is because consumers argue that they postpone

                                                           organic purchases to a later stage in life.

6.   Aschemann‐W itzel, J. &       2017       n.a.*        Price is perceived as a main barrier to purchase

     Zielke, S.                                            organic foods.

7.   Bernard, J.C. & Liu, Y.       2017   United States    Consumers beliefs about taste of organic and local

                                                           food products play a stronger role in taste


                                                      67

===== PAGE 68 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

                                                             perceptions than actual taste.

8.    Bi, X., Gao, Z., House, L.     2015    United States   Consumers’         willingness       to     pay     for   sensory

      A., & Hausmann, D. S.                                  attributes is negative for juice labelled as organic.

9.    Bravo, P. C., Cordts, A.,      2013     Germany        Altruistic motives, such as animal welfare and fair

      Schulze, B., and Spiller, A.                           trade,     are    strong     predictors        of      consumers’

                                                             purchasing of organic food.

10.   Bruschi, V., Shershneva,       2015       Russia       Organic food consumption is mainly motivated by

      K., Dolgopolova, I.,                                   personal        well-being     and    less        by   social   or

      Canavari, M., & Teuber, R.                             environmental concerns issues.

                                                             Despite the high price for organic food, it is not

                                                             seen as an absolute barrier to purchase.

11.   Bryła, P.                      2016       Poland       Consumers consider healthiness and high quality as

                                                             the most important characteristics of organic food

                                                             products.

12.   de-Magistris, T., & Gracia,    2016       Spain        Consumers are willing to pay higher prices for

      A.                                                     organic labelled and locally produced almonds.

13.   Dimitri, C., & Dettmann, R.    2012    United States   Consumer education level has a strong effect on the

      L.                                                     likelihood of buying organic fruit and vegetables.

14.   Drexler, D., Fiala, J.,        2017   Czech Republic   Organic product labelling plays a central role in

      Havlíčková, A., Potůčková,                             determining consumer decision-making.

      A., & Souček, M.

15.   Dumortier, J., Evans, K. S.,   2017    United States   Organic food purchases are determined by health,

      Grebitus, C., & Martin, P.                             nutrition, and taste. General trust and trust in media

      A.                                                     are      also    significant    in        influencing     organic

                                                             purchases.

16.   Ellison, B., Duff, B. R.,      2016    United States   Retail outlets are a crucial factor in influencing

      Wang, Z., & White, T. B.                               consumers perception of organic food products,



                                                     68

===== PAGE 69 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

                                                                influencing both expected taste and trust in brand.

17.   Gineikiene, J., Kiudyte, J.,    2017       Lithuania      Consumers are skeptical about the health claims in

      & Degutis, M.                                             terms of perceived healthiness of both organic and

                                                                conventional products.

18.   Grzybowska-Brzezinska,          2017        Poland        The most important technological attribute of

      M., Grzywinska-Rapca, M.,                                 organic food is the production method, which

      Zuchowski, I., & Bórawski,                                ensures that the food is healthy, contains no

      P.                                                        chemical additives and has good, natural taste.

19.   Hasimu, H., Marchesini, S.,     2017        China         Consumers perceive organic food as healthy and

      & Canavari, M.                                            safe.

20.   Hemmerling, S., Asioli, D.,     2016         Italy,       The “Core Organic Taste - COT” is not applicable

      & Spiller, A.                          Germany, Poland,   for all European countries. However, for most

                                             the Netherlands,   countries only single elements seem to be relevant.

                                             Switzerland, and

                                                  France

21.   Hemmerling, S., Canavari,       2016   Germany, France,   Organic consumers reveal a positive attitude

      M. and Spiller, A.                       Italy, Poland,   towards natural food products, but a negative

                                             Switzerland, and   sensory preference for the more natural yoghurt.

                                             The Netherlands.

22.   Hemmerling, S., Hamm, U.,       2015         n.a.*        Organic food is perceived as more expensive than

      and Spiller, A.                                           its conventional counterpart. However, literature

                                                                has not yet fully addressed consumers’ price

                                                                knowledge and price processing.

23.   Hemmerling, S.,                 2013   Germany, France,   The presence of an organic label may lead to an

      Obermowe, T., Canavari,                  Italy, Poland,   enhancement of taste perception among consumers.

      M., Sidali, K. L., Stolz, H.,          Switzerland, and

      & Spiller, A.                           the Netherlands



                                                           69

===== PAGE 70 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

24.   Husic-Mehmedovic, M.,          2017       European       Life equilibrium, in terms of more balanced and

      Arslanagic-Kalajdzic, M.,                developing      caring approach towards one’s own life, has a

      Kadic-Maglajlic, S., &                    countries      strong, positive effect on perceived intrinsic organic

      Vajnberger, Z.                                           food quality attributes.

25.   Janssen, M. and Hamm, U.       2012    Czech Republic,   Trust in the underlying production standards of EU

                                                Denmark,       certification scheme and the inspection system was

                                             Germany, Italy    not very pronounced among consumers.

                                               and the UK

26.   Janssen, M. and Hamm, U.       2012b       Czech         Only consumers trust the generic labelling with the

                                                Republic,      prefix ‘organic’ without a certification logo. For

                                                Denmark,       almost the all tested organic certification logos, the

                                             Germany, Italy,   WTP was significantly higher than for the generic

                                               Switzerland     labeling.

                                               and United

                                               Kingdom.

27.   Kriwy, P., & Mecking, R.       2012       Germany        Health consciousness has a stronger association

      A.                                                       with organic food consumption.

28.   Lee, W. C. J., Shimizu, M.,    2013     United States    Consumers perceive food products with organic

      Kniffin, K. M., & Wansink,                               labels to have larger nutritional value and lower

      B.                                                       calories content than those without the organic

                                                               label.

29.   Liang, R. D.                   2016        Taiwan        Larger consumers’ awareness of organic food

                                                               certification labeling enhances the sense of trust in

                                                               organic food labeling.

30.   Marian, L., Chrysochou, P.,    2014       Denmark        High price of organic food products determines less

      Krystallis, A., & Thøgersen,                             repeated purchases than low or medium price.

      J.



                                                       70

===== PAGE 71 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

31.   Mørk, T., Bech-Larsen, T.,      2017   Denmark        Collectivistic values affect consumers’ attitudes

      Grunert, K. G., & Tsalis, G.                          toward       organic      products        also    in    the

                                                            institutional/public setting.

32.   Nuttavuthisit, K. and           2017   Thailand.      Mistrust in the control system and in the

      Thøgersen, J.                                         authenticity of food sold as organic has a significant

                                                            negative impact on self-reported buying behavior.

33.   Pagliarini, E., Laureati, M.,   2013     Italy        Organic      and       conventional       wines    differed

      & Gaeta, D.                                           marginally in the intensity of sensory descriptors

                                                            and these differences did not influence consumers

                                                            liking.

34.   Paul, J. and Rana, J.           2012     India        Health,   availability     and        education   positively

                                                            influence consumer's attitude towards buying

                                                            organic food products.

35.   Petrescu, D. C., Petrescu-      2017   Romania        Consumers perceive farmers’ markets and self-

      Mag, R. M., Burny, P., &                              production      products         as      main     purchase

      Azadi, H.                                             sources/locations of uncertified organic food.

36.   Pino, G., Peluso, A., and       2012     Italy        Food safety and health concerns influence the

      Guido, G.                                             purchase intentions of occasional consumers.

                                                            However, ethical motivations affect the purchase

                                                            intentions of the regular buyers.

37.   Rahnama, H.                     2017     Iran         For women, social and emotional value do not have

                                                            a significant impact on organic food choice.

38.   Rödiger M., & Hamm, U.          2015     n.a.*        Organic food prices are a major barrier to purchase,

                                                            however the organic market volume is growing and

                                                            results for the price–quality relationship indicate

                                                            reasonable opportunities for future organic markets

                                                            in the light of trends in consumer attitudes.



                                                       71

===== PAGE 72 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

39.   Samant, S. S., & Seo, H. S.    2016   United States    Sustainability-related label claims (e.g. organic),

                                                             increase quality perception and acceptability of

                                                             chicken breast meat only when consumers are well

                                                             informed about the label claims.

40.   Schleenbecker, R. and          2013       n.a.*        Consumers consider healthier the organic products

      Hamm, U.                                               carrying health claims.

41.   Schuldt, J. P., & Hannahan,    2013   United States    Consumers rate organic foods as less tasty than

      M.                                                     conventional ones.

42.   Kottala, S. Y., & Singh, R.    2015       n.a.*        Sustainability   issues   such     as    biodiversity

                                                             preservation, natural resources conservation and

                                                             lower energy consumption, play a key role in

                                                             influencing consumers’ attitudes and behavior

                                                             towards organic foods.

43.   Silva, A. R., Bioto, A. S.,    2017      Brazil        When the quality and sustainability labels (e.g.

      Efraim, P., & de Castilho                              organic) were communicated. consumers increase

      Queiroz, G.                                            sensory scores and purchase intention.

44.   Thøgersen, J., de Barcellos,   2015      Brazil        Environmental friendliness and universalism

      M. D., Perin, M. G., &                   China         values are strong motivations to buy organic

      Zhou, Y.                                               vegetables.

45.   Van Loo, E. J., Caputo, V.,    2011   United States    Consumer WTP for organic chicken breast differs

      Nayga, R. M., Meullenet, J.                            between demographic groups as well as among

      F., & Ricke, S. C.                                     consumers with different purchasing frequency of

                                                             organic meat products.

46.   Van Loo, E. J., Caputo, V.,    2014     Belgium        Consumers prefer the national organic food logo,

      Nayga, R. M., & Verbeke,                               certified by a private organization, compared to the

      W.                                                     newly-introduced EU organic food logo.

47.   Van Loo, E. J., Caputo, V.,    2015   United States    Consumers utility increases when one of the labels,



                                                        72

===== PAGE 73 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

      Nayga, R. M., Seo, H. S.,                                in particular organic USDA, Rainforest Alliance

      Zhang, B., & Verbeke, W.                                 and Fair Trade, is present on the coffee package.

48.   Van Loo, E. J., Diem, M. N.    2013      Belgium         Recognition and knowledge of EU organic logo are

      H., Pieniak, Z., & Verbeke,                              relatively low among Belgian consumers; while

      W.                                                       there is a much higher recognition of the private

                                                               organic certification logo.

49.   Vecchio, R., Annunziata,       2015        Italy         Young consumers are more informed of the organic

      A., Krystallis, A., &                                    label compared to other sustainability labels.

      Pomarici, E.                                             Understanding and use of sustainability labels may

                                                               be inhibited by a lack of credibility of the labels,

                                                               but also by uncertainty about which organization

                                                               body is responsible for the certification.

50.   Vecchio, R., Van Loo, E. J.,   2016        Italy         Providing    additional   information    on   organic

      & Annunziata, A.                                         regulations does not affect the consumers’ WTP for

                                                               organic     yogurt.   Specific    socio-demographic

                                                               variables such as gender, age, presence of kids in

                                                               the household and the need to follow a specific diet,

                                                               positively affect consumers’ WTP for organic

                                                               yogurts.

51.   Zagata, L.                     2012       Czech          The intention to purchase organic food is mainly

                                               Republic        determined by the health aspects of the food

                                                               product.

52.   Zander, K.                     2014   Estonia, France,   Consumers’ knowledge of the organic logo is low.

                                            Germany, Italy,

                                            Poland and the

                                                  UK

53.   Zander, K., Padel, S., &       2015      Estonia,        Consumers show a great confusion about organic



                                                         73

===== PAGE 74 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

      Zanoli, R.                                France, Germany,      labels, indeed the shares of consumers in the survey

                                                 Italy, Poland and    who recognized the fake logo as an organic logo

                                                      the UK          was high.

54.   Zanoli, R., Scarpa, R.,          2013            Italy          Ethical/environmental issues, animal welfare, local

      Napolitano, F., Piasentier,                                     origin and local breeds are relevant factors in

      E., Naspetti, S., & Bruschi,                                    explaining WTP for organic beef.

      V.

*n.a.=not available since it is a review article which does not focus on specific countries.




                                                               74

===== PAGE 75 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

Table A.2 – Selected papers concerning the factors that drive consumers’ perceptions and

preferences for natural food products.


N°       AUTHORS              YEAR     COUNTRY                             MAIN FINDINGS

1.   Abouab, N., &            2015        France        Consumers perceive food from handmade production as

     Gomez, P.                                          more natural than food products produced from machine-

                                                        made production. Thus the level of humanization of the

                                                        production        process        positively          impacts

                                                        naturalness perceptions.

2.   Amos, C., Pentina, I.,   2014     United States    Consumers use ‘natural’ as a simple choice heuristic

     Hawkins, T. G., &                                  feature, showing that products labeled natural contain

     Davis, N.                                          superior instrumental attributes and are perceived to be

                                                        less harmful and healthier than conventional.

3.   Aschemann-Witzel,        2017       Denmark        Consumers’ attitudes towards functional foods were more

     J. & Grunert, K.                                   favorable for food categories perceived as natural versus

                                                        processed.

4.   Berry, C., Burton, S.,    (in     United States    The provision of objective information regarding the

     & Howlett, E.            press)                    ambiguity of natural claims moderates the effects of these

                                                        claims on consumers’ attribute inferences and product

                                                        evaluations.

5.   Binninger, A.-S.         2015        France        Naturalness of food products has two main dimensions: a

                                                        more altruistic one, linked with environmentally friendly

                                                        and animal welfare aspects, and a more egoistic one,

                                                        related to a balanced diet and health as well as sensory

                                                        properties.

6.   Coppola, A., &           2010         Italy        Consumers’     perception   of   naturalness    is    highly

     Verneau, F.                                        differentiated in relation to the type of food and to the



                                                       75

===== PAGE 76 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

                                                          degree of product processing. Food processing or

                                                          manipulation decrease the consumers’ perception of

                                                          naturalness.

7.    Devcich, D. A.,         2007     New Zealand        Consumers with a higher number of modern health

      Pedersen, I. K., &                                  worries, such as “drug-resistant bacteria”, “pesticides in

      Petrie, K. J.                                       food” show a stronger preference for foods that contain

                                                          only natural ingredients.

8.    Dickson-Spillmann,      2011     Switzerland        Consumers risk perceptions related to chemicals in foods,

      M., Siegrist, M., &                                 additives and contaminants, is positively correlated with

      Keller, C.                                          preference for natural food.

9.    Dominick, S. R.,        2017     United States      Consumers perceive products with “all natural” label to

      Fullerton, C.,                                      have improved taste and improved nutritional value.

      Widmar, N. J. O., &                                 Women are more receptive to the “all natural” label than

      Wang, H.                                            men and responses to the label vary for different food

                                                          categories.

10.   Dubé, L., Fatemi, H.,   2016   United States and    Natural food is positively evaluated not only on its

      Lu, J., & Hertzer, C.                India          healthfulness, but also on the attributes related to pleasure

                                                          and other esthetic experiences perception. There are cross-

                                                          cultural   differences   between   Eastern    and   Western

                                                          populations in their perception and attitudes towards

                                                          naturally nutritious product connected to differences

                                                          existing in food culture.

11.   Evans, de               2010       Australia        Australian consumers perceive products with physical

      Challemaison, B., &                                 changes, less processing, with ingredients described using

      Cox, D. N.                                          common named descriptors (instead of E-numbers) to be

                                                          more natural.

12.   Franchi, M.             2012         n.a.*          The term ‘natural’ is used as a brand representing



                                                         76

===== PAGE 77 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

                                                        healthiness, reliability and reassurance in terms of safety

                                                        and security of food to consumers.

13.   Hemmerling, S.,        2016   France, Germany,    Organic consumers reveal a positive attitude towards

      Canavari, M., &                   Italy, the      natural food, but a negative sensory preference for the

      Spiller, A.                     Netherlands,      more natural product, defined as “attitude-liking gap”.

                                       Poland and

                                      Switzerland

14.   Hauser, M., Jonas,     2011      Switzerland      Consumers perceive naturalness as a multidimensional

      K., & Riemann, R.                                 concept, which refers to sustainable, organic farming,

                                                        traditional farming methods, fresh ingredients, use of raw

                                                        materials and more time for preparing and cooking food.

15.   Li, M., & Chapman,     2012   United States       Students perceive natural claimed products as healthier

      G. B.                                             and safer than products that are not claimed to be natural.

                                                        Perceived risk represents an important reason for

                                                        naturalness preference.

16.   Liu, R., Hooker, N.    2017     United States     The presence of an all-natural front-of-pack label

      H., Parasidis, E., &                              improves consumers’ perceptions of product quality and

      Simons, C. T.                                     nutritional content.

                                                        Additional information provided at the point of purchase

                                                        impacts on consumers’ perceptions of quality and

                                                        nutritional content of all-natural labelled products.

17.   Lunardo, R., &         2013        France         Consumers perceived high naturalness when the point of

      Saintives, C.                                     purchase is considered natural. Moreover, the authority

                                                        which claims the naturalness of the product is of major

                                                        importance.

18.   Magnier, L.,           2016       Denmark         Consumers perceived naturalness of the product is

      Schoormans, J., &                                 influenced also by the sustainability of the packaging.



                                                       77

===== PAGE 78 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

      Mugge, R.

19.   McFadden, J. R., &      2017     United States      Women show a greater WTP for organic-natural than men.

      Huffman, W. E.                                      Price premiums tend to increase as a result of specific

                                                          information.

20.   Rozin, P.               2006     United States      For consumers processing alone, without substantial

                                                          change, can degrade naturalness.

21.   Rozin, P., Spranca,     2004     United States      A substantial part of the motivation for preferring natural

      M., Krieger, Z.,                                    food products is ideational (moral or aesthetic), as

      Neuhaus, R., Surillo,                               opposed to instrumental (healthiness/effectiveness or

      D., Swerdlin, A., &                                 superior sensory properties).

      Wood, K.

22.   Rozin, P., Fischler,    2012   United States and    Both ideational and instrumental reasons influence

      C., & Shields-                      Europe          consumers’ attitudes towards natural food. There are very

      Argelès, C.                                         few differences in the conception of natural food between

                                                          European and American consumers, highlighting that

                                                          demographic variables play a minority role in influencing

                                                          the attitude towards natural.

                                                          For consumers naturalness is defined principally by the

                                                          absence of certain negative intrinsic characteristics rather

                                                          than the presence of positive ones.

23.   Siipi,H.                2013         n.a.*          The ambiguous nature of the current uses of term

                                                          “natural” represents a serious risk for consumers,

                                                          misunderstanding or equivocation.

24.   Syrengelas, K.,         2017     United States      The providing of additional information on the effective

      Lewis, K. E.,                                       meaning of natural label has a positive impact on

      Grebitus, C., &                                     consumer utility when consumers are not aware of the

      Nayga Jr, R. M.                                     definition of natural.



                                                         78

===== PAGE 79 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

25.   Thompson, D.B.            2011            n.a.*          Ideological beliefs make greater contributions to the

                                                               preference for natural products than instrumental beliefs.

*n.a.=not available since it is a review article which does not focus on specific countries.




                                                            79

===== PAGE 80 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

Table A.3 – Selected papers concerning the factors that drive consumers’ perceptions and

preferences for food “free from artificial additives/ingredients”.

N°       AUTHORS             YEAR   COUNTRY                              MAIN FINDINGS

1.   Bearth, A., Cousin,     2014   Switzerland   Risk and benefits perceptions affect consumer’ acceptance of

     M.E. & Siegrist, M.                          food additives. In addition, risk and benefits perception are

                                                  influenced by consumers’ knowledge of regulation, their trust in

                                                  regulators, and their preference for natural products.

2.       Bastian, Y.,        2015    Australia    Consumers considered natural flavourings and colours, and

         Saltman, T.,                             additives associated with health benefits (e.g. vitamins,

       Johnson, K., &                             minerals) more acceptable food additives, than winemaking

        Wilkinson, S.                             additives even commonly used and legally permitted additives,

                                                  such as tartaric acid, preservatives, oak chips, and tannins.

3.       Chen, M. F.         2017     Taiwan      Consumers attitudes toward and perceived behavioural control

                                                  of the consumption of food with additives, the impact of risk

                                                  perceptions plays an important role in determining an

                                                  individual’s intention to take precautions to avoid consuming

                                                  foods that contain additives. In addition, the consumers’

                                                  attention to food additive scandal news and their perceived risk

                                                  determine their attitude toward consuming food with additives.

4.    De Jonge, J., Van      2007      The        Both optimism and pessimism about the food safety arise from

     Trijp, H., Jan Renes,          Netherlands   consumer trust in regulators and stakeholders in the food chain.

       R., & Frewer, L.                           Consumer confidence in the food safety could be enhanced by

                                                  improving both consumer trust in societal actors, and consumer

                                                  safety perceptions of particular product groups.

5.   Dickson-Spillmann,      2011   Switzerland   General attitudes toward chemicals influence perceptions in the

       M., Siegrist, M.,                          food context. Consumers’ dose–response insensitivity might lead

          Keller, C.                              to   an   inappropriate    perception    of    exposure    hazards.


                                                       80

===== PAGE 81 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

                                                  Contaminants and additives in food are perceived differently

                                                  according to their origin. Women are more sensitive than men to

                                                  chemical exposure hazards.

6.         Haen, D.          2014      The        Ethical, aesthetic and cultural concerns are not recognized as

                                    Netherlands   important drivers of public distrust about food additives which

                                                  are instead very relevant.

7.    Kang, H.J., Kim, S.,   2017   Republic of   Consumers are concerned about the safety of using food

      Lee, G., Lim, H.S.,             Korea       additives in processed foods and do not recognize these additives

       Yun, S. S. Kim, J.                         as safe and useful materials as part of a modern diet.

              W.                                  Nutrition    teachers   and     members    of    nongovernmental

                                                  organizations appeared to have a biased perception of food

                                                  additives, which may cause consumers to have a negative

                                                  perception of food additives.

8.    Kubota, S., Sawano,    2017     Japan       Antioxidant-free label has a significant influence on consumer

         H., Kono, H.                             preferences. Consumers who recognize food additive dangers

                                                  placed addition value on wine without antioxidants. However,

                                                  consumers who have knowledge of wine and food processing

                                                  tend to view antioxidant-free wine as lower in quality compared

                                                  to the wines made with the original manufacturing process.

9.       Lupton, D. A.       2005    Australia    Consumers perceive that processing of foodstuffs and 'unnatural'

                                                  additives are the second relevant importance food characteristics

                                                  after dietary fat.

10.   Shim, S.M., Seo, S     2011   Republic of   A large part consumers expressed that information on food

       H., Youngja Lee,               Korea       additives was insufficient. They attributed this lack of

       Y., Moon, G. I., ,                         information to difficulties understanding the subject of food

      Kim, M.S., Park, J.                         additives and insufficient education. Almost half of the

              H.                                  consumers chose leaflets and pamphlets as preferable mediums



                                                     81

===== PAGE 82 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022

                                                  of information transmission.

11.      Siegrist, M.,       2017   Switzerland   The use of E-number as symbolic information reported on the

          Sütterlin, B.                           label rather than chemical names reduce the perceived

                                                  naturalness of food additives. Consumers rely on symbolic

                                                  information when evaluating foods, which may lead to biased

                                                  judgments and decisions.

12.   Szucs, V., Szabo, E.   2014    Hungary      Consumers’ shopping decisions toward the “avoidance of food

          & Bana, D.                              additives” can be influenced with the rising of the trust against

                                                  the producers and the controlling authorities.

13.       Tanaka, Y.,        2015     Japan       Consumer’s emotions as anxiety and anger can be changed by

      Kitayama, M., Arai,                         altering consumer’s cognitions or perceptions.

       S. & Matsushima,

               Y.

14.      Varela, P. &        2013     Spain       Consumers have little knowledge and a relatively negative

          Fiszman, S.                             perception about food additives. A strong association between

                                                  “industrially processed” food and additives/thickeners was

                                                  identified.

15.    Wansink, B., Tal,     2014     United      Consumers have strong fears when added ingredients are

       A., Brumberg, A.               States      associated with less nutritious foods, while they can be reduced

                                                  if the history and function of ingredient are communicated.

16.   Wu, M., Zhong, Y.,     2013     China       Consumers’ attitude towards behaviour, subjective norm and

      Shan, L. & Qin, W.                          information perception exerted moderate to high effect on food

                                                  scares, and the effects were also mediated by risk perceptions of

                                                  additive safety.




                                                     82

===== PAGE 83 =====
Please cite as: Asioli, Daniele; Aschemann-Witzel, Jessica; Caputo, Vincenzina; Vecchio,
Riccardo; Annunziata, Azzurra; Næs, Tormod; Varela, Paula. Making sense of the ‘‘clean label’’
trends: a review of consumer food choice behavior and discussion of industry implications Food
Research International, 99, 58-71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodres.2017.07.022




                                               83
